<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_q2k_bzw_kn">
  <title>Aggregate functions</title>
  <shortdesc>Aggregate functions take multiple values from
    documents, perform calculations and return a single value as the result.
    The function names are case insensitive.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    

<section>
    <p>Aggregate functions include SUM, AVG, COUNT, MIN, MAX and ARRAY_AGG. Aggregate functions
      can only be used in SELECT, HAVING, and ORDER BY clauses. When aggregate functions are
      used in expressions in these clauses, the query will operate as an aggregate query.
      Aggregate functions take one argument, the value over which to compute the aggregate
      function. The COUNT function can also take a wildcard (*) or a path with a wildcard (path.*) as its argument.</p>
  
  <simpletable relcolwidth="1.0* 2.63* 1.48*">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Function</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Returns</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>ARRAY_AGG(expr)</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluate the expression for each member of the group and return an array
            containing these values</stentry>
          <stentry>Array</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>AVG(expr)</stentry>
          <stentry>Returns average value of all values in a result set. Non-numeric values in a
            result set are ignored.</stentry>
          <stentry>Integer</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>COUNT(expr)</stentry>
          <stentry>Returns the number of items in a result set that are non-NULL and non-MISSING.</stentry>
          <stentry>0 or positive integer</stentry>
        </strow>
    <strow>
      <stentry>COUNT(DISTINCT expr)</stentry>
      <stentry>Returns the number of items in a result set that are distinct, non-NULL, and non-MISSING.</stentry>
      <stentry>0 or positive integer</stentry>
    </strow>   
        <strow>
          <stentry>MIN(expr)</stentry>
          <stentry>Returns minimum value of all values in a result set. This is the first non-NULL,
            non-MISSING value that would result from an ORDER BY</stentry>
          <stentry>0 or positive integer, NULL if no non-NULL, non-MISSING items in result
            set</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>MAX(expr)</stentry>
          <stentry>Returns maximum value of all values in a result set. This is the last non-NULL,
            non-MISSING value that would result from an ORDER BY</stentry>
          <stentry>0 or positive integer</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>SUM(expr)</stentry>
          <stentry>Returns sum of all numeric values in a result set. Non-numeric values in a result
            set are ignored</stentry>
          <stentry>Integer</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
  
  
  
</section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
