<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_h3q_1p4_mn">
  <title>LIMIT clause</title>
  <shortdesc>The LIMIT clause imposes a specific number of objects returned in a result set by SELECT. 
    This clause must have a non-negative integer as upper bound. 
    The OFFSET clause optionally follows the LIMIT clause. 
    If an offset is specified, that many number of objects are omitted 
    from the result set before enforcing a specified LIMIT. 
    This clause must be a non-negative integer.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>

    <section>
      <title>Syntax</title>
      <codeblock>
LIMIT expr
LIMIT expr OFFSET expr
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    <section>
      <title>Compatibility</title>
      <p>Compatible with Couchbase Server 2.2</p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>An OFFSET clause specifies a number of objects to be skipped. 
        If a LIMIT clause is also present, the OFFSET is applied prior to the LIMIT. 
        The OFFSET value must be a non-negative integer.</p>
      <p>A LIMIT clause imposes an upper bound on the number of objects returned by the SELECT statement. 
        The LIMIT value must be a non-negative integer.</p>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>The following examples shows the LIMIT and OFFSET clauses with the N1QL tutorial.</p>
    </section>
    
    <example><title>Name and age list: limit by 2</title>
      
      <codeblock>
SELECT fname, age
    FROM tutorial 
        ORDER BY age 
            LIMIT 2 
      </codeblock>
      
      <p>Returns:</p>
      <codeblock>
{
  "resultset": [
    {
      "age": 18,
      "fname": "Fred"
    },
    {
      "age": 20,
      "fname": "Harry"
    }
  ]
}       
      </codeblock>
    </example>
    
    <example><title>Name and age list: limit and offset by 2</title>
      <codeblock>
SELECT fname, age
    FROM tutorial 
        ORDER BY age 
            LIMIT 2 OFFSET 2        
      </codeblock>
      <p>Returns:</p>
      
      <codeblock>
{
  "resultset": [
    {
      "age": 40,
      "fname": "Jane"
    },
    {
      "age": 46,
      "fname": "Dave"
    }
  ]
}        
      </codeblock>
      
    </example>  
    
    <example><title>Golf products list: limit and offset by 10</title>

      <codeblock>
SELECT * FROM product 
    UNNEST product.categories as cat
        WHERE lower(cat) in ["golf"] LIMIT 10 OFFSET 10       
      </codeblock>
    </example>

  </refbody>
</reference>
