<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_jqq_n5d_ln">
  <title>Number functions</title>
  <shortdesc>Number functions are functions that are performed on a numberic field. The following
    table lists the number functions.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>

    <simpletable relcolwidth="1.06* 2.14* 1.0*">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Function</stentry>
        <stentry>Description</stentry>
        <stentry>Returns</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>CEIL(value)</stentry>
        <stentry>If numeric values, return the smallest integer no
          less than this value. Otherwise NULL</stentry>
        <stentry>NULL or integer</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>FLOOR(value)</stentry>
        <stentry>If numeric values, return the smallest integer no
          less than this value. Otherwise NULL</stentry>
        <stentry>NULL or integer</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>ROUND( value )</stentry>
        <stentry>If value is numeric, round to nearest integer,
          otherwise NULL. Functional equivalent of <codeph>ROUND(value, 0)</codeph></stentry>
        <stentry>Integer or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>ROUND( value, digits )</stentry>
        <stentry>If digits an integer and value numeric, rounds the
          value up to the number of digits. Otherwise returns NULL</stentry>
        <stentry>Integer or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>TRUNC( value )</stentry>
        <stentry>If numeric value, truncates towards zero.
          Functional equivalent of TRUNC(value, 0). Otherwise returns NULL</stentry>
        <stentry>Integer or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>TRUNC( value, digits )</stentry>
        <stentry>If digits an integer and value numeric, truncates
          value to the specific number of digits. Otherwise returns NULL</stentry>
        <stentry>Integer or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>         
    </simpletable>

    <section>
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following query shows normalized, rounded, and truncated ratings.</p>
      <note type="tip">Use the +, -, * and / operators with the rounding (ROUND) and truncating
        (TRUNC) functions.</note>
      
      <codeblock>
SELECT 
  AVG(reviews.rating) / 5 as normalizedRating,
  ROUND((avg(reviews.rating) / 5), 2) as roundedRating, 
  TRUNC((avg(reviews.rating) / 5), 3) as truncRating
  FROM reviews AS reviews
  WHERE reviews.customerId = "customer62"    
  </codeblock>
      
      <p>Returns:</p>
      <codeblock>
{
  "resultset": [
    {
      "normalizedRating": 0.42000000000000004,
      "roundedRating": 0.42,
      "truncRating": 0.42
    }
  ]
}    
  </codeblock>
      
      
    </section>
    

  </refbody>
</reference>
