<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_mf3_c5d_ln">
  <title>String functions</title>
  <shortdesc>String functions perform operations on a string input value and returns a string or
    other value. The following table lists the string functions.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
 
    <simpletable relcolwidth="1.26* 1.94* 1.0*">
      <sthead>
        <stentry>Function</stentry>
        <stentry>Description</stentry>
        <stentry>Returns</stentry>
      </sthead>
      <strow>
        <stentry>LENGTH(expr)</stentry>
        <stentry>Returns the length of the value after evaluating the expression. For example,
          length(orders.items). If string, length of string. For arrays, length of array. For
          objects, returns the number of pairs in object. For all others, returns NULL</stentry>
        <stentry>Value or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>LOWER(expr)</stentry>
        <stentry>If the expression is a string, transforms the string into all lowercase. Otherwise,
          returns NULL.</stentry>
        <stentry>String or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>LTRIM(expr, charset)</stentry>
        <stentry>Removes the longest string containing the characters in <codeph>charset</codeph>
          from start of string.</stentry>
        <stentry>String or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>RTRIM( expr, charset )</stentry>
        <stentry>Removes the longest string containing only the characters in the specified
          character set starting at the end</stentry>
        <stentry>String or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>SUBSTR(value, position)</stentry>
        <stentry>For the value of a string and the numeric position, retrieves the substring from
          the position to the end of string. The string position starts at 1. If the position is 0,
          the string position is still 1. If string is at a negative position, characters are
          counted from the end of string. Otherwise, returns NULL.</stentry>
        <stentry>String or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>SUBSTR(value, position, length)</stentry>
        <stentry>If length is positive integer, returns substring starting at position up to length
          characters. Otherwise, returns NULL</stentry>
        <stentry>String or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>TRIM(expr, charset)</stentry>
        <stentry>Functional equivalent of LTRIM(RTRIM(expr, charset))</stentry>
        <stentry>String or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
      <strow>
        <stentry>UPPER(expr)</stentry>
        <stentry>If the expression is a string, transforms the string into all uppercase letters.
          Otherwise, returns NULL</stentry>
        <stentry>String or NULL</stentry>
      </strow>
    </simpletable>
 
 <section><title>Example</title>
   <p>The following example shows a LOWER string function via the N1QL tutorial.</p>
   <codeblock>
 SELECT
    product 
    FROM product
    UNNEST product.categories as categories
    WHERE LOWER(categories) = "appliances"     
   </codeblock>  
 </section>
 
  </refbody>
</reference>
