<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_fgp_zq4_kn">
 <title>Couchbase concepts</title>
<shortdesc>Couchbase Server is a NoSQL document database for interactive web applications.
  Before developing applications on the Couchbase Server, review the key concepts and components 
  that are related to application development on Couchbase Server including the underlying functions 
  data storage, and cluster management.</shortdesc>

 
 <conbody>
  <p>The primary unit of data storage in Couchbase Server is a JSON document,
   which is a data structure capable of holding arrays and other complex
   information. JSON documents are information-rich, flexible structures that
   enable you to model objects as individual documents. By using JSON documents to
   model your data, you can construct your application data as individual documents
   which would otherwise require rigidly-defined relational database tables. This
   provides storage for your web application which is well suited to serialized
   objects and the programming languages that use them. 
  </p>
  
  <p>Note</p>
  <p>Binary objects,
   such as integers and strings, can also be stored.</p>
  
  
  <p>Because application objects are modeled as documents, schema migrations do not need to be performed. The documents and the fields they store
   indicate the relationships between application objects; therefore, to update the
   structure of objects you store, change the document structure that
   is written to Couchbase Server.</p>
  
  <p>When Couchbase Server is used as a store for JSON documents, the records can be indexed and queried. Couchbase Server provides a
   JavaScript-based query engine to find records based on field values.</p>
  
 </conbody>
 
 
 <related-links>
  <link format="html" href="http://docs.couchbase.com/couchbase-manual-2.5/"
   scope="external">
   <linktext>Couchbase Server Manual</linktext>
  </link>
 </related-links>
 
</concept>