<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_vbz_jvd_ln">
  <title>Conditional functions</title>
  <shortdesc>Conditional functions evaluate expressions to determine if the values and formulas meet
    the specified condition. The following tables list the conditional functions for unknowns and
    numbers.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>

<section>
  <title>Conditional functions for unknowns</title>
    <p>The following functions are conditional functions for unknowns.</p>
    <simpletable relcolwidth="1.44* 1.78* 1.0*">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Function</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Returns</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>FIRSTNUM(expr1, expr2, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates the all the expressions and finds the first non-NULL, non-MISSING,
            non-NaN, non-infinite numeric value.</stentry>
          <stentry>NULL or Integer</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>IFMISSING(expr, expr, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates and finds the first non-MISSING value.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>IFMISSINGORNULL(expr, expr, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates and finds the first non-MISSING, non-NULL value.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>IFNULL(expr, expr, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates and finds the first non-NULL value.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>MISSINGIF(value1, value2)</stentry>
          <stentry>If value1 equals value2 return MISSING, otherwise value1.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>NULLIF(value1, value2 )</stentry>
          <stentry>If valuel1 equals value2, return NULL, otherwise value1.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value1 or NULL</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
</section>      
 
 
 <section>
   <title>Conditional functions for numbers</title>
      <p>The following functions are conditional functions for numbers.</p>
      <simpletable relcolwidth="1.44* 1.77* 1.0*">
        <sthead>
          <stentry>Function</stentry>
          <stentry>Description</stentry>
          <stentry>Returns</stentry>
        </sthead>
        <strow>
          <stentry>IFINF(expr1, expr2, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates and outputs the first non-infinite value (+ or -).</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>IFNAN(expr1, expr2, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates and outputs the first non-NaN value.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>IFNANORINF(expr1, expr2, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates and outputs the first non-NaN, non-infinite value.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>IFNEGINF(expr1, expr2, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates and outputs the first non-infinite value.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>IFPOSINF(expr1, expr2, ... )</stentry>
          <stentry>Evaluates and outputs the first positive non-infinite value.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>NANIF(value1, value2)</stentry>
          <stentry>If value1 equals value2, outputs NaN, otherwise value1.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value1 or NaN</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>NEGINFIF(value1, value2)</stentry>
          <stentry>If value1 equals value2, outputs negative infinity, otherwise value1.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value1 or +infinity</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>NEGINFIF(value1, value2)</stentry>
          <stentry>If value1 equals value2, outputs negative infinity, otherwise value1.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value1 or +infinity</stentry>
        </strow>
        <strow>
          <stentry>POSINFIF(value1, value2)</stentry>
          <stentry>If value1 equals value2, outputs positive infinity, otherwise value1.</stentry>
          <stentry>Value1 or +infinity</stentry>
        </strow>
      </simpletable>
 </section>

  </refbody>
</reference>
