<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ox4_ycp_fn">
  <title>Goals</title>
    
  <shortdesc>N1QL builds on the SQL language and includes many of SQL's features in addition to 
    features associated with document-oriented databases. 
    This guide describes key concepts about the language, 
    provides examples describing how to use the 
    language, discusses advanced operations you can perform with the language, 
    and includes a language reference for language syntax and language elements.</shortdesc>   
 
  <body>
    <section>
      <title>Goals of N1QL</title>
      <p>N1QL is designed to be a concise, intuitive, expressive language for building complex queries.
        It is designed for document-oriented databases which store application objects as well as their relationships in 
        documents instead of tables. Application data can be expressed as atomic values or in 
        nested structures within the document, such as objects or arrays. Relationships between documents can be expressed as values or values in nested structures.  To find information in a document-oriented database, you need the correct logic and expressions for navigating documents and document structures. N1QL provides a clear, easy-to-understand abstraction layer to query and retrieve information in your document-database.
      </p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Who uses N1QL</title>
      <p>Application developers and data analysts can use N1QL to perform ad-hoc querying. </p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Ways to use N1QL</title>
    
    <p>The typical use case is to use the command-line interactive query tool, cbq.</p>
      <ol>
        <li>On the command line, navigate to the local directory where N1QL resides.</li>
        <li>Connect to a Couchbase server: <codeph>./cbq-engine -couchbase http://HOST:8091</codeph></li>
        <li>Run the command-line interactive tool (cbq): ./cbq -engine=http://HOST:8093/</li>
        <li>Open from the browser: <codeph>http://localhost:8093/tutorial</codeph>. Do not substitute "localhost"; type it in exactly.</li>
        <li>Run a query: <codeph>SELECT * FROM :system.buckets</codeph></li>        
      </ol>

    </section>
    
  </body>

  <related-links>
    <link format="html" scope="external" href="http://www.couchbase.com/communities/n1ql"><linktext>N1QL community page</linktext></link>
  </related-links> 
 
</topic>
