<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1398"><title>Deployment considerations</title><body><ul>
<li><b>Restricted access to Moxi ports</b></li>
</ul><p>Make sure that only trusted machines (including the other nodes in the cluster)
 can access the ports that Moxi uses.</p><ul>
<li><b>Restricted access to web console (port 8091)</b></li>
</ul><p>The web console is password protected. However, we recommend that you restrict
 access to port 8091; an abuser could do potentially harmful operations (like
 remove a node) from the web console.</p><ul>
<li><b>Node to Node communication on ports</b></li>
</ul><p>All nodes in the cluster should be able to communicate with each other on 11210
 and 8091.</p><ul>
<li><b>Swap configuration</b></li>
</ul><p>Swap should be configured on the Couchbase Server. This prevents the operating
 system from killing Couchbase Server should the system RAM be exhausted. Having
 swap provides more options on how to manage such a situation.</p><ul>
<li><b>Idle connection timeouts</b></li>
</ul><p>Some firewall or proxy software will drop TCP connections if they are idle for a
 certain amount of time (e.g. 20 minutes). If the software does not allow you to
 change that timeout, send a command from the client periodically to keep the
 connection alive.</p><ul>
<li><b>Port Exhaustion on Windows</b></li>
</ul><p>The TCP/IP port allocation on Windows by default includes a restricted number of
 ports available for client communication. For more information on this issue,
 including information on how to adjust the configuration and increase the
 available ports, see <xref href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa560610(v=bts.20).aspx" scope="external" format="html">MSDN: Avoiding TCP/IP Port
 Exhaustion</xref>.</p></body><related-links><linklist><title>Collected links</title><link href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa560610(v=bts.20).aspx" scope="external" format="html"><linktext>MSDN: Avoiding TCP/IP Port
 Exhaustion</linktext></link></linklist></related-links></topic>