<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic13047">
	<title>Sizing guidelines</title>
	<shortdesc>The primary considerations for sizing a Couchbase Server cluster are the number of
		nodes and node size.</shortdesc>
	<body>
		<p>When sizing your Couchbase Server cluster, ask the following questions:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>How many nodes do I need?</li>
			<li>How large (RAM, CPU, disk space) should those nodes be?</li>
		</ul>
		<p>To determine the number of nodes needed for a cluster, consider the following:.</p>
		<ul>
			<li>RAM</li>
			<li>Disk throughput and sizing</li>
			<li>Network bandwidth</li>
			<li>Data distribution and safety</li>
		</ul>
		<p>Due to the in-memory nature of Couchbase Server, RAM is usually the determining factor
			for sizing. But ultimately, the primary factor depends on the data set and information
			being stored.</p>
		<p>For example:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>If you have a very small data set that gets a very high load, you’ll need to base
				your size more off of network bandwidth than RAM.</li>
			<li>If you have a very high write rate, you’ll need more nodes to support the disk
				throughput needed to persist all that data (and likely more RAM to buffer the
				incoming writes).</li>
			<li>Even with a very small dataset under low load, you may want three nodes for proper
				distribution and safety.</li>
		</ul>
		<p>With Couchbase Server, you can increase the capacity of your cluster (RAM, Disk, CPU, or
			network) by increasing the number of nodes within your cluster, since each limit will be
			increased linearly as the cluster size is increased.</p>

		<section><title>RAM sizing</title>
			<p>RAM is usually the most critical sizing parameter. It’s
				also the one that can have the biggest impact on performance and
			stability.</p></section>
		<section><title>Working set</title>
			<p>The working set is the data that the client
				application actively uses at any point in time. Ideally, all of the working set
				lives in memory. This impacts how much memory is needed.</p>
		</section>
		
		
		
		<section><title>Memory quota</title>
			<p>It is very important that your Couchbase cluster’s
				size corresponds to the working set size and total data you expect.</p>
			<p>The goal
				is to size the available RAM to Couchbase so that all your document IDs, the
				document ID meta data, and the working set values fit. The memory should rest just
				below the point at which Couchbase will start evicting values to disk (the High
				Water Mark).</p>
			
			<note type="important">You will not be able to allocate all your machine RAM to the Couchbase server node 
				(<codeph>per_node_ram_quota</codeph> parameter) because other programs might be running on your
				machine.</note>
			
			<p>How much memory and disk space per node you will need depends on
				several different variables, which are defined below:</p>
			
			
			<p>The following calculations are per-bucket calculations. The
				calculations need to be summed up across all buckets. If all the buckets have the
				same configuration, treat the total data as a single bucket. There is no
				per-bucket overhead that needs to be considered.</p>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Variable</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>documents_num</entry>
							<entry>The total number of documents you expect in your working
								set</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ID_size</entry>
							<entry>The average size of document IDs</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>value_size</entry>
							<entry>The average size of values</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>number_of_replicas</entry>
							<entry>The number of copies of the original data you want to
								keep</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>working_set_percentage</entry>
							<entry>The percentage of your data you want in memory</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>per_node_ram_quota</entry>
							<entry>How much RAM can be assigned to Couchbase </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
			<p>Use the following items to calculate how much memory you need:</p>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Constant</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>Metadata per document (metadata_per_document)</entry>
							<entry>This is the amount of memory that Couchbase needs to store
								metadata per document. Metadata uses 56 bytes. All the metadata
								needs to live in memory while a node is running and serving
								data.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>SSD or Spinning</entry>
							<entry>SSDs give better I/O performance.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>headroom</entry>
							<entry>The cluster needs additional overhead to store metadata. That
								space is called the headroom. This requires approximately 25–30%
								more space than the raw RAM requirements for your dataset. Since
								SSDs are faster than spinning (traditional) hard disks, you should
								set aside 25% of memory for SSDs and 30% of memory for spinning hard
								disks.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>High Water Mark (high_water_mark)</entry>
							<entry>By default, the high water mark for a node’s RAM is set at 85%.
							</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table><p>This is a rough guideline to size your
				cluster:</p>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Variable</entry>
							<entry>Calculation</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>no_of_copies</entry>
							<entry><codeph>1 + number_of_replicas</codeph></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>total_metadata All the documents need to live in the
								memory.</entry>
							<entry><codeph>(documents_num) * (metadata_per_document + ID_size) *
									(no_of_copies)</codeph></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>total_dataset</entry>
							<entry><codeph>(documents_num) * (value_size) *
								(no_of_copies)</codeph></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>working_set</entry>
							<entry><codeph>total_dataset * (working_set_percentage)</codeph></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Cluster RAM quota required</entry>
							<entry><codeph>(total_metadata + working_set) * (1 + headroom) /
									(high_water_mark)</codeph></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>number of nodes</entry>
							<entry><codeph>Cluster RAM quota required / per_node_ram_quota</codeph>
							</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
			<note type="important">You will need at least the number of replicas + 1 nodes regardless of your
				data size.</note>
			<p>The following is a sample sizing calculation:</p>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Input Variable</entry>
							<entry>value</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>documents_num</entry>
							<entry>1,000,000</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ID_size</entry>
							<entry>100</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>value_size</entry>
							<entry>10,000</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>number_of_replicas</entry>
							<entry>1</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>working_set_percentage</entry>
							<entry>20% </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
				
				<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Constants</entry>
							<entry>value</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>Type of Storage</entry>
							<entry>SSD</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>overhead_percentage</entry>
							<entry>25%</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>metadata_per_document</entry>
							<entry>56 for 2.1 and higher, 64 for 2.0.x</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>high_water_mark</entry>
							<entry>85% </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Variable</entry>
							<entry>Calculation</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>no_of_copies</entry>
							<entry>= 1 for original and 1 for replica</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>total_metadata</entry>
							<entry>= 1,000,000 * (100 + 56) * (2) = 312,000,000</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>total_dataset</entry>
							<entry>= 1,000,000 * (10,000) * (2) = 20,000,000,000</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>working_set</entry>
							<entry>= 20,000,000,000 * (0.2) = 4,000,000,000</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>Cluster RAM quota required</entry>
							<entry>= (440,000,000 + 4,000,000,000) * (1+0.25)/(0.7) =
								7,928,000,000</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
			<p>For example, if you have 8GB machines and you want to use 6 GB for
				Couchbase…</p>
			
			<codeblock>number of nodes =
    Cluster RAM quota required/per_node_ram_quota =
    7.9 GB/6GB = 1.3 or 2 nodes
</codeblock>
			
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Disk throughput and sizing</title>
			<p>Couchbase Server decouples RAM from the
				I/O layer. Decoupling allows high scaling at very low and consistent latencies and
				enables very high write loads without affecting client application performance.
				</p>
			<p>Couchbase Server implements an append-only format and a built-in automatic
				compaction process. Previously, in Couchbase Server 1.8.x, an “in-place-update” disk
				format was implemented, however, this implementation occasionally produced a
				performance penalty due to fragmentation of the on-disk files under workloads with
				frequent updates/deletes. </p>
			<p>The requirements of your disk subsystem are broken
				down into two components: size and IO. </p>
			
			<title>Size</title>
			<p>Disk size requirements are impacted by the Couchbase file write format,
				append-only, and the built-in automatic compaction process. Append-only format means
				that every write (insert/update/delete) creates a new entry in the
				file(s).</p>
			<p>The required disk size increases from the update and delete workload
				and then shrinks as the automatic compaction process runs. The size increases
				because of the data expansion rather than the actual data using more disk space.
				Heavier update and delete workloads increases the size more dramatically than heavy
				insert and read workloads.</p>
			<p>Size recommendations are available for key-value data only. 
				If views and indexes or XDCR are implemented, contact Couchbase support for analysis and recommendations.</p>
			<p>Depending on the workload, the required disk size is <b>2–3x</b> your total dataset size (active
				and replica data combined). </p>
			<note type="important">The disk size requirement of 2-3x
				your total dataset size applies to key-value data only and does not take into
				account other data formats and the use of views and indexes or XDCR.</note>
			
			<title>IO</title>
			<p>IO is a combination of the sustained write rate, the need for compacting the
				database files, and anything else that requires disk access. Couchbase Server
				automatically buffers writes to the database in RAM and eventually persists them to
				disk. Because of this, the software can accommodate much higher write rates than a
				disk is able to handle. However, sustaining these writes eventually requires enough
				IO to get it all down to disk. </p>
			<p>To manage IO, configure the thresholds and
				schedule when the compaction process kicks in or doesn’t kick in keeping in mind
				that the successful completion of compaction is critical to keeping the disk size in
				check. Disk size and disk IO become critical to size correctly when using views and
				indexes and cross-data center replication (XDCR) as well as taking backup and
				anything else outside of Couchbase that need space or is accessing the disk.
				</p>
			
			<title>Best practice</title>
			<p>Use the available configuration options to separate data files, indexes and the
				installation/config directories on separate drives/devices to ensure that IO and
				space are allocated effectively. </p>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Network bandwidth</title>
			<p>Network bandwidth is not normally a significant
				factor to consider for cluster sizing. However, clients require network bandwidth to
				access information in the cluster. Nodes also need network bandwidth to exchange
				information (node to node).</p>
			
			<p>In general, calculate your network bandwidth requirements using the followingformula:</p>
			
			<codeblock>Bandwidth = (operations per second * item size) + overhead for rebalancing </codeblock>
			
			<p>Calculate the <codeph>operations per second</codeph> with the following formula:</p>
			
			<codeblock>Operations per second = Application reads + (Application writes * Replica copies) </codeblock>
			</section>
		
		<section><title>Data safety</title>
			<p>Make sure you have enough nodes (and the right
				configuration) in your cluster to keep your data safe. There are two areas to keep
				in mind: how you distribute data across nodes and how many replicas you store across
				your
				cluster.</p>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Data distribution</title>
			<p>Basically, more nodes are better than less. If
				you only have two nodes, your data is split across the two nodes, half and half. 
				This means that half of your dataset is impacted if one goes away. 
				On the other hand, with ten nodes, only 10% of the dataset is impacted if one nodes goes away. 
				Even with automatic failover, there still is some period of time when data is unavailable if nodes fail. 
				This is mitigated by having more nodes.</p>
			
			<p>After a failover, the cluster takes on an extra load. 
				The question is - how heavy is that extra load and are you prepared for it? 
				Again, with only two nodes, each one needs to be ready to handle the entire load. 
				With ten, each node only needs to be able to take on an extra tenth of the workload should one fail.</p>
			
			<p>While two nodes does provide a minimal level of redundancy, we recommend
				that you always use at least three nodes.</p>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Replication</title>
			<p>Couchbase Server allows you to configure up to three replicas (creating four copies of the dataset). 
				In the event of a failure, you can only “failover” (either manually or automatically) as many nodes as you have
				replicas. 
				For example:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>In a five node cluster with one replica, if one node goes down, you can fail
						it over. If a second node goes down, you no longer have enough replica
						copies to fail over to and will have to go through a slower process to
						recover.</li>
				<li>In a five node cluster with two replicas, if one node goes down, you can fail
						it over. If a second node goes down, you can fail it over as well. Should a
						third one go down, you now no longer have replicas to fail over.</li>
			</ul>
			<p>After a node goes down and is failed over, try to replace that node as soon as
				possible and rebalance. The rebalance recreates the replica copies (if you still
				have enough nodes to do so).</p>
			
			<note type="tip">As a rule of thumb, configure the following:
			<ul>
				<li>One replica for up to five nodes.</li>
				<li>One or two replicas for five to ten nodes.</li>
				<li>One, two, or three replicas for over ten nodes.</li>
			</ul>
				While there may be variations to this, there are diminishing returns from having more replicas in smaller clusters.
			</note>
			
			</section>
		
		<section><title>Hardware requirements</title>
			<p>In general, Couchbase Server has very low
				hardware requirements and is designed to be run on commodity or virtualized systems.
				However, as a rough guide to the primary concerns for your servers, the following is recommended:
				</p>
			<ul>
				<li>RAM: This is your primary consideration. We use RAM to store active items,
						and that is the key reason Couchbase Server has such low latency.</li>
				<li>CPU: Couchbase Server has very low CPU requirements. The server is
						multi-threaded and therefore benefits from a multi-core system. We recommend
						machines with at least four or eight physical cores.</li>
				<li>Disk: By decoupling the RAM from the I/O layer, Couchbase Server can support
						low-performance disks better than other databases. 
						As a best practice, have separate devices for server install, data
						directories, and index directories.</li>
				<li>Network: Most configurations work with Gigabit Ethernet interfaces. Faster
					solutions such as 10GBit and Infiniband will provide spare capacity.</li>
			</ul>
			<p>Known working configurations include SAN, SAS, SATA, SSD, and EBS with the
				following recommendations:</p>
			
			<ul>
				<li>SSDs have been shown to provide a great performance boost both in terms of
  draining the write queue and also in restoring data from disk (either on
  cold-boot or for purposes of rebalancing).</li>
				<li>RAID generally provides better throughput and reliability.</li>
				<li>Striping across EBS volumes (in Amazon EC2) has been shown to increase throughput.</li>
			</ul>

		</section>
		
		<section><title>Considerations for Cloud environments (i.e. Amazon EC2)</title>
			<p>Due to the
				unreliability and general lack of consistent I/O performance in cloud environments,
				we highly recommend lowering the per-node RAM footprint and increasing the number of
				nodes. This will give better disk throughput as well as improve rebalancing since
				each node will have to store (and therefore transmit) less data. By distributing the
				data further, it lessens the impact of losing a single node (which could be fairly
				common).</p>
		</section>
	</body>
	<related-links>
		<linklist>
			<link href="../Concepts/bp-cloudDeployment.dita"></link>
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</topic>
