<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2096">
 <title>Statistics and monitoring</title>
 <shortdesc>A complete set of statical and monitoring information are provided through the Web Console, CLI, and REST API.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p>In order to understand what your cluster is doing and how it is performing, Couchbase Server
   incorporates a complete set of statistical and monitoring information. The statistics are
   provided through all of the administration interfaces. Within the Web Administration Console, a
   complete suite of statistics are provided, including built-in real-time graphing and performance
   data.</p>
  <p>The statistics are divided into a number of groups, allowing you to identify different states
   and performance information within your cluster:</p>
  <ul>
   <li><b>By Node</b></li>
  </ul>
  <p>Node statistics show CPU, RAM and I/O numbers on each of the servers and across your cluster as
   a whole. This information can be used to help identify performance and loading issues on a single
   server.</p>
  <ul>
   <li><b>By vBucket</b></li>
  </ul>
  <p>The vBucket statistics show the usage and performance numbers for the vBuckets used to store
   information in the cluster. These numbers are useful to determine whether you need to reconfigure
   your buckets or add servers to improve performance.</p>
  <ul>
   <li><b>By View</b></li>
  </ul>
  <p>View statistics display information about individual views in your system, including the CPU
   usage and disk space used so that you can monitor the effects and loading of a view on your
   Couchbase nodes. This information may indicate that your views need modification or optimization,
   or that you need to consider defining views across multiple design documents.</p>
  <ul>
   <li><b>By Disk Queues</b></li>
  </ul>
  <p>These statistics monitor the queues used to read and write information to disk and between
   replicas. This information can be helpful in determining whether you should expand your cluster
   to reduce disk load.</p>
  <ul>
   <li><b>By TAP Queues</b></li>
  </ul>
  <p>The TAP interface is used to monitor changes and updates to the database. TAP is used
   internally by Couchbase to provide replication between Couchbase nodes, but can also be used by
   clients for change notifications.</p>
  <p>In nearly all cases the statistics can be viewed both on a whole of cluster basis, so that you
   can monitor the overall RAM or disk usage for a given bucket, or an individual server basis so
   that you can identify issues within a single machine.</p>
 </body>
</topic>
