<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_onr_w4j_dp">
	<title>Client interface</title>
	<shortdesc />
	<conbody>

		<p>Within Couchbase Server, the techniques and systems used to get information into and out of
			the database differ according to the level and volume of data that you want to access. The
			different methods can be identified according to the base operations of create, retrieve,
			update and delete.</p>

		<section><title>Create</title>
			<p>Information is stored into the database using the memcached protocol interface to store
				a <i>value</i> against a specified <i>key</i>. Bulk operations for setting the key/value
				pairs of a large number of documents at the same time are available, and these are more
				efficient than multiple smaller requests.</p>
			<p>The value stored can be any binary
				value, including structured and unstructured strings, serialized objects (from the
				native client language), and native binary data (for example, images or audio). For use with
				the Couchbase Server View engine, information must be stored using the JavaScript Object
				Notation (JSON) format, which structures information as an object with nested fields,
				arrays, and scalar data types.</p></section>

		<section>
			<title>Retrieve</title>
			<p>To retrieve information from the database, there are two methods available: By Key and
				By View</p>
			<ul>
				<li>By Key <p>If you know the key used to store a particular value, then you can use the
						memcached protocol (or an appropriate memcached compatible client-library) to
						retrieve the value stored against a specific key. You can also perform bulk
						operations.</p></li>
				<li>By View <p>If you do not know the key, you can use the View system to write a view
						that outputs the information you need. The view generates one or more rows of
						information for each JSON object stored in the database. The view definition
						includes the keys (used to select specific or ranges of information) and values.
						For example, you could create a view on contact information that outputs the JSON
						record by the contact's name, and with a value containing the contacts address.
						Each view also outputs the key used to store the original object. If the view
						doesn't contain the information you need, you can use the returned key with the
						memcached protocol to obtain the complete record.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</section>

		<section>
			<title>Update</title>
			<p>To update information in the database, you must use the memcached protocol interface.
				The memcached protocol includes functions to directly update the entire contents, and
				also to perform simple operations, such as appending information to the existing record,
				or incrementing and decrementing integer values.</p>
		</section>

		<section><title>Delete</title>
			<p>To delete information from Couchbase Server, you need to use the memcached protocol
				which includes an explicit delete command to remove a key/value pair from the
				server.</p><p>However, Couchbase Server also allows information to be stored in the
				database with an expiry value. The expiry value states when a key/value pair should be
				automatically deleted from the entire database, and can either be specified as a
				relative time (for example, in 60 seconds), or absolute time (31st December 2012,
				12:00pm).</p>
		</section>


	</conbody>
</concept>
