<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.entryd">
<topic id="topic_xgq_zhx_r4">
  <title>Release notes</title>
  <body>
    <p>This release note is for the 3.0.0 release. It contains a list of known and fixed issues.</p>

    <p>Couchbase Server is a NoSQL document database for interactive web applications. It has a
      flexible data model, is easily scalable, provides consistent high performance and is
      “always-on,” meaning it can serve application data 24 hours, 7 days a week.</p>
    <p>The new major features in this release include:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Performance <ul>
          <li>Tunable memory (option to remove keys and metadata from memory).</li>
          <li>Bucket disk I/O ejections (for faster persistence to disk).</li>
          <li>Faster warm up from disk when restarting the server.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Availability and reliability <ul>
          <li>Faster XDCR without persisting to disk on the source cluster.</li>
          <li>Index building without persisting to disk on the source cluster.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Ease of administration <ul>
          <li>Incremental backup</li>
          <li>Incremental restore</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Security <ul>
          <li>Data and password encryption between client and server</li>
          <li>Secure administrator access</li>
        </ul></li>
    </ul>

    <section><title>New features and behavior changes</title>
      <p>The following major enhancements include changes to the infrastructure, memory managment,
        server maintenance, views indexing, and XDCR.</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Infrastructure enhancement with <xref href="../Concepts/dcp.dita">Database Change
            Protocol (DCP)</xref> and <xref href="../Concepts/global-thread-pool.dita"/><p>For DCP
            statistics via the Web console and CLI, see <xref href="UI/ui-dcp-queues.dita">DCP
              Queues via UI</xref> and <xref href="../CLI/cli-cbstats-dcp.dita">DCP stats via
              CLI</xref>.</p></li>
        <li>Bucket and disk I/O enhancements including: <ul>
            <li><xref href="../Concepts/bucket-eviction.dita">Bucket metadata ejections</xref> - For
              more information about bucket metadata ejections, see <xref
                href="../UI/ui-task-bucket-metadata-ejection.dita"/>, <xref
                href="../CLI/CBcli/cbcli-bucket-metadata-ejection.dita"/>, and <xref
                href="../REST/rest-bucket-metadata-ejection.dita"/></li>
            <li><xref href="../Concepts/bucket-priority.dita">Disk I/O priority</xref> - see <xref
                href="../UI/ui-task-set-bucket-priority.dita"/>, <xref
                href="../CLI/cli-set-disk-priority.dita"/>, and <xref
                href="../REST/rest-bucket-set-priority.dita"/></li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Server maintenance enhancements including: <ul>
            <li><xref href="../Concepts/graceful-failover.dita"/> - For more information about
              graceful failover via the web console, CLI, and REST API, see <xref
                href="../UI/ui-task-failover-graceful.dita"/>, <xref
                href="../CLI/cli-failover-graceful.dita"/>, and <xref
                href="../REST/rest-failover-graceful.dita"/></li>
            <li><xref href="../Concepts/delta-node-recovery.dita"/> - For information about using
              delta node recovery via the web console, CLI, and REST API, see <xref
                href="../UI/ui-task-node-recovery-incremental.dita"/>, <xref
                href="../CLI/cli-node-recovery-incremental.dita"/>, and <xref
                href="../REST/rest-node-recovery-incremental.dita"/>. </li>
            <li><xref href="../Tasks/tasks-backup-restore-incremental.dita"/> - For information
              about using incremental backup and restore via the CLI, see <xref
                href="../CLI/cli-increment-backup.dita"/> and <xref
                href="../CLI/cli-incremental-restore.dita"/>. </li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Index building enhancement with <xref href="../Views/views-index-updates.dita"/>.</li>
        <li>XDCR enhancements with <xref href="../XDCR/xdcr-memory-replication.dita"/> and <xref
            href="../XDCR/xdcr-pause-resume.dita"/> - For more information about pausing and
          resuming XDCR replication, see <xref href="../UI/ui-xdcr-pause-resume.dita"/>, <xref
            href="../CLI/cli-xdcr-pause-resume.dita"/>, and <xref
            href="../REST/rest-xdcr-pause-resume.dita"/>.</li>
        <li>Security enhancement including <xref href="../Misc/security-admin-access.dita"/> and
            <xref href="../Misc/security-client-ssl.dita"/></li>
        <li>Log and log collection improvements with <xref
            href="../Misc/cluster-wide-info-intro.dita"/> - For more information about collecting
          diagnostics, see <xref href="../UI/ui-cluster-wide-info.dita"/>, <xref
            href="../CLI/CBcli/cbcli-cluster-wide-info.dita"/>, and <xref
            href="../CLI/cbcollect-cluster-wide-info.dita"/>,
          <!-- <xref href="REST/rest-cluster-wide-info.dita" ></xref> -->
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>






    <section><title>Couchbase .NET incompatibility</title>
      <p>An incompatibility between Microsoft Framework 4.0 or earlier, the Couchbase .NET SDK 1.3.7
        or earlier, and Couchbase Server 3.0 has been identified where the URL generated for a View
        operation on a Bucket is improperly encoded. This causes view requests to fail with the
        following message in the body:</p>
      <codeblock>"Design document not found, body: {"error":"not_found","reason":"missing"}"</codeblock>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Impact</dt>
          <dd>The affected Microsoft .NET versions are 4.0 or earlier, Couchbase .NET SDK 1.3.7 or
            earlier, and Couchbase Server 3.0 (including Beta) >= 3.0. Microsoft .NET version 4.5
            changes the way <codeph>Uri.ToString</codeph> handles it’s Unicode encoding, which
            resolves the issue, thus clients running on that version or higher of the CLR are not
            impacted. Additionally, Couchbase Server 2.5 and lower are not impacted. <note
              type="note">Couchbase .NET 1.3.8 has a patch which resolves the issue for all versions
              of Couchbase Server and Microsoft .NET Frameworks. </note>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Workaround</dt>
          <dd>In addition to the patch released with Couchbase .NET SDK version 1.3.8, add the
            following element to your App.Config or Web.Config to enable support for all SDK and
            Server versions. <codeblock>&lt;uri&gt;
    &lt;iriParsing enabled="true"/&gt;
&lt;uri&gt;
            </codeblock>
            <p>Customers who are not ready or cannot upgrade their Couchbase .NET SDK’s to 1.3.8 or
              greater are strongly advised to aentry this element to their deployments if they
              intend to use the Couchbase .NET SDK with Couchbase Server 3.0 or greater.</p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>

        <dlentry>
          <dt>References</dt>
          <dd><xref
              href="https://connect.microsoft.com/VisualStudio/feedback/details/758479/system-uri-tostring-behaviour-change"
              format="html"/></dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
    </section>




    <section><title>Views behavior change</title>
      <p>The <codeph>stale=false</codeph> view query argument has been enhanced. It considers all
        document changes which have been received at the time the query was received. This means
        that using the durability requirements or observe feature to block for persistence in
        application code before issuing the <codeph>false</codeph>stale query is no longer needed.
        It is recommended that you remove all such application level checks after completing the
        upgrade to the 3.0 release. </p>
    </section>




    <section>
      <title>Known issues</title>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.54*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="8.62*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Functional area</b></entry>
              <entry><b>Issue</b></entry>
              <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Installation and upgrade</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11941" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11941</xref></entry>
              <entry>Online upgrade from 2.0 to 3.0 on Ubuntu 12.04 does not work</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Cluster operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11928" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11928</xref></entry>
              <entry>Rebalance with delta recovery exited with the message, "{badmatch,
                {error,{failed_nodes,['ns_1@172.23.96.14']}}}"</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Installation and upgrade</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11922" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11922</xref></entry>
              <entry>Upgrade to R16 causes 20% regression in view query latency and
                throughput</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Indexing and querying</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11919" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11919</xref></entry>
              <entry>There is a 3-5x increase in index size during rebalance with views</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Indexing and querying</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11899" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11899</xref></entry>
              <entry>Indexing progress statistic goes backwards</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Database operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-12142" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-12142</xref></entry>
              <entry>Rebalance exit due to Bad Replicas error has no support documentation <p>A bad
                  replicas error message means that replication streams could not be created. There
                  may be many reasons for this to happen, however, if some of the vBuckets sequence
                  numbers (which are maintained internally in Couchbase) are invalid, the a log
                  message displays in the memcached logs similar to the following:</p><codeblock>(DCP Producer) some_dcp_stream_name (vb 0) Stream request failed because the snap start seqno (100) &lt;= start seqno (101) &lt;= snap end seqno (100) is required</codeblock>
                <p>In order for a DCP producer to accept a request for a DCP stream, the following
                  must be true:</p>
                <codeblock>snapshot start seqno &lt;= start seqno &lt;= snapshot end seqno</codeblock>
                <p>If the above condition is not true for a stream request, contact support to
                  resolve the issue.</p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Database operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11820" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11820</xref></entry>
              <entry>Beer-sample loading is stuck in a crashed state</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>XDCR</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11643" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11643</xref></entry>
              <entry>Incoming workload suffers when XDCR enabled</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>XDCR</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11642" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11642</xref></entry>
              <entry>Intra-replication falling behind under moderate-heavy workload <p>Under a
                  moderate replication workload (20-30K sets per second), the backlog becomes too
                  large resulting in high memory usage.</p></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Indexing and querying</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11589" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11589</xref></entry>
              <entry>Sliding <codeph>endseqno</codeph> during initial index build or DCP reading
                from disk snapshot results in longer <codeph>stale=false</codeph> query latency and
                index startup time</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Database operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11299" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11299</xref></entry>
              <entry>UPR replica streams cannot send items from partial snapshots</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>



    <section><title>Fixed issues</title>
      <p>The following are fixed issues.</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.35*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="7.69*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry><b>Functional area</b></entry>
              <entry><b>Issue</b></entry>
              <entry><b>Description</b></entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Install and upgrade</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-6972" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-6972</xref></entry>
              <entry>Distribute Couchbase Server through yum and ubuntu package repositories</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Database operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11866" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11866</xref></entry>
              <entry>wbeam.smp RSS suddenly increases to 45GB after an unexpected_binary
                error</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>vBuckets</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11720" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11720</xref></entry>
              <entry>Backfilling the entire vBucket can starve other streams that also need to
                backfill</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Cluster operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11606" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11606</xref></entry>
              <entry>Error displayed when node did not mark to collect</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Cluster operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11568" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11568</xref></entry>
              <entry>IP address does not show the same in each step of cluster-wide collect
                info.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Database operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11405" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11405</xref></entry>
              <entry>Shared thread pool: high CPU overhead due to OS level context switches /
                scheduling</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Database operations</entry>
              <entry><xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues/browse/MB-11383" scope="external"
                  format="html">MB-11383</xref></entry>
              <entry>warmup_min_items_threshold setting is not honored correctly in 3.0
                warmup</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
