<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1647">
 <title>Administration basics</title>
 <shortdesc>The administration tools are the Web Console, Command-line interface (CLI) and REST API.</shortdesc>
 
 <body>
  <p>Couchbase Server was designed to be as easy to use as possible, and does not require constant
    attention. Administration is however offered in a number of different tools and systems.</p>
   <p>Couchbase Server provides the following solutions for managing and monitoring your Couchbase Server
    and cluster:</p>
   <ul>
    <li><b>Web Console</b>
     <p>Couchbase Server includes a built-in web-administration console that provides a complete
      interface for configuring, managing, and monitoring your Couchbase Server installation.</p>
    </li>
    <li><b>Command-line Interface (CLI)</b>
     <p>Couchbase Server includes a suite of command-line tools that provide information and control
      over your Couchbase Server and cluster installation. These can be used in combination with
      your own scripts and management procedures to provide additional functionality, such as
      automated failover, backups and other procedures. The command-line tools make use of the REST
      API.</p>
    </li>
    <li><b>REST API</b>
     <p>In addition to the Web Administration console, Couchbase Server incorporates a management
      interface exposed through the standard HTTP REST protocol. This REST interface can be called
      from your own custom management and administration scripts to support different
      operations.</p>
    </li>
   </ul>
  
  <section><title>Accessing Couchbase Server directly</title>
  <p>To access Couchbase Server and use the CLI or REST API directly, 
   log into the server directly (depending on the operating system). 
   To access Couchbase Server and use the Web Console, 
   log into the server through a browser such as Firefox, Chrome, Safari, or Internet Explorer.</p>
  </section>

  
  <section><title>Accessing Couchbase Server through a client</title>
  <p>If you already have an application that uses the Memcached protocol then you can start using
   your Couchbase Server immediately. If so, you can simply point your application to this server
   like you would any other memcached server. No code changes or special libraries are needed, and
   the application will behave exactly as it would against a standard memcached server. Without the
   client knowing anything about it, the data is being replicated, persisted, and the cluster can be
   expanded or contracted completely transparently.</p>
  <p>If you do not already have an application, then you should investigate one of the available
   Couchbase client libraries to connect to your server and start storing and retrieving
   information.</p>
  </section>
  
 </body>
 <related-links>
  <linklist>
   <link href="../Install/install-browsers.dita"/>
   <link href="../CLI/cli-overview.dita"></link>
   <link href="../REST/overview-rest-api.dita"></link>
   <link href="../Concepts/bp-deployment-considerations.dita"></link>
    <link href="http://www.couchbase.com/develop" scope="external" format="html">
    <linktext>Couchbase SDKs</linktext>
   </link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
