<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1711">
	<title>Data file location</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server stores data files (database and indices) under the <uicontrol>var > lib
			> couchbase > data</uicontrol> path.</shortdesc>
	<body>
		<p>The disk path for the database and indices files is set during the initial setup of the server
			node. The default disk path is typically used for development purposes only. If the
			server node is used for production, configure a different disk path. </p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
				<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.77*"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Platform</entry>
						<entry>Default directory</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>Linux</entry>
						<entry><codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data</codeph></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Windows</entry>
						<entry><codeph>C:\Program Files\couchbase\server\var\lib\couchbase\data</codeph></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Mac OS X</entry>
						<entry><codeph>~/Library/Application Support/Couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data</codeph></entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		
		
		
		<section><title>Changing the data file path</title><p>The disk path where the data and index files
				are stored cannot be changed on a running server. To change the disk path, the node
				must be removed from the cluster, configured with the new path, and added back to
				the cluster. The data file path can be changed for each node via the Web UI at
				setup, REST API, or CLI. Once a node or cluster has already been setup and is
				storing data, the path cannot be changed while the node is part of a running
				cluster. </p><p>The quickest and easiest method is to provision a new node with the
				correct disk path configured and then use swap rebalance to add the new node in
				while taking the old node out. This ensures that cluster performance is not
				impacted. </p><p>To change the disk path by replacing a node (with swap
				rebalance):</p><ol>
				<li>Setup a new node with a different disk path.</li>
				<li>Swap rebalance the new node for the existing node.</li>
				<li>Repeat the process for every node in the cluster.</li>
			</ol>
			<p>To change the disk path of an existing node (without swap rebalance): </p><ol>
				<li>Remove the node from the cluster and rebalance.</li>
				<li>Change the path on the running node either via the REST API or using the
					Couchbase CLI (commands above). </li>
				<li>Re-add the node back to the cluster and rebalance.</li>
			</ol> To change the disk path on multiple nodes, swap out each node and change the disk
			path individually. <note type="important">Changing the data path for a node that is
				already part of a cluster permanently deletes the stored data.</note>
			<note type="tip">When using the command line tool, the data file and index file path
				settings cannot be changed individually. 
				To change the setting individually, use the REST API.</note>
		</section>
		
			
		<example><title>CLI example</title>
		<codeblock>
couchbase-cli node-init -c 10.5.2.54:8091 \
	--node-init-data-path=new_path \
	-u user -p password
		</codeblock>
		</example>
		
	
		
	</body>
	<related-links>
		<linklist>
			<link href="../Tasks/rebalance-adding-nodes.dita"/>
			<link href="../REST/rest-cluster-removenode.dita"></link>
			<link href="../Tasks/tasks-rebalance.dita"/>
			<link href="../Tasks/rebalance-swap-rebalance.dita"/>
			<link href="../REST/rest-node-index-path.dita"/>
			<link href="../REST/overview-rest-api.dita"></link>
			<link href="../REST/rest-server-nodes.dita"></link>
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</topic>
