<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1485">
  <title>Administration tools</title>
  <shortdesc>The administration tools are the Web Console, Command-line interface (CLI) and REST API.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Couchbase Server was designed to be as easy to use as possible, and does not require constant
      attention. Administration is however offered in a number of different tools and systems.</p>
    <p>Couchbase Server provides the following solutions for managing and monitoring your Couchbase Server
      and cluster:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><b>Web Console</b>
    <p>Couchbase Server includes a built-in web-administration console that provides a complete
      interface for configuring, managing, and monitoring your Couchbase Server installation.</p>
      </li>
      <li><b>Command-line Interface (CLI)</b>
        <p>Couchbase Server includes a suite of command-line tools that provide information and control
          over your Couchbase Server and cluster installation. These can be used in combination with
          your own scripts and management procedures to provide additional functionality, such as
          automated failover, backups and other procedures. The command-line tools make use of the REST
          API.</p>
      </li>
      <li><b>REST API</b>
    <p>In addition to the Web Administration console, Couchbase Server incorporates a management
      interface exposed through the standard HTTP REST protocol. This REST interface can be called
      from your own custom management and administration scripts to support different
      operations.</p>
      </li>
      </ul>

  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../Tasks/tasks-common.dita"></link>
      <link href="../CLI/cli-overview.dita"></link>
      <link href="../REST/overview-rest-api.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
