<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2891">
   <title>Reporting issues</title>
   <shortdesc>A description on what to include when reporting an issue (JIRA).</shortdesc>
   <body>
      <p>When reporting issues to Couchbase (using <xref href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues"
            scope="external" format="html">couchbase.com/issues</xref> ), you should always add the
         following information to JIRA issues:</p>
      <ul>
         <li><p>Environment description (package installation? cluster_run? build number?
            OS)</p></li>
         <li><p>All the steps necessary to reproduce (if applicable)</p></li>
         <li><p>Show the full content of all the design documents</p></li>
         <li><p>Describe how your documents are structured (all same structure, different
               structures?)</p></li>
         <li><p>If you generated the data with any tool, mention its name and all the parameters
               given to it (full command line)</p></li>
         <li><p>Show what queries you were doing (include all query parameters, full URL), use curl
               with option -v and show the full output, example:</p></li>
      </ul>
      <codeblock><codeph>&gt; curl -v 'http://localhost:9500/default/_design/test/_view/view1?limit=10&amp;stale=false'
* About to connect() to localhost port 9500 (#0)
*   Trying ::1... Connection refused
*   Trying 127.0.0.1... connected
* Connected to localhost (127.0.0.1) port 9500 (#0)
&gt; GET /default/_design/test/_view/view1 HTTP/1.1
&gt; User-Agent: curl/7.21.4 (universal-apple-darwin11.0) libcurl/7.21.4 OpenSSL/0.9.8r zlib/1.2.5
&gt; Host: localhost:9500
&gt; Accept: */*
&gt;
&lt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&lt; Transfer-Encoding: chunked
&lt; Server: MochiWeb/1.0 (Any of you quaids got a smint?)
&lt; Date: Tue, 21 Aug 2012 14:43:06 GMT
&lt; Content-Type: text/plain;charset=utf-8
&lt; Cache-Control: must-revalidate
&lt;
{"total_rows":2,"rows":[
{"id":"doc1","key":"doc1","value":111111},
{"id":"doc2","key":"doc2","value":222222}
]
}
* Connection #0 to host localhost left intact
* Closing connection #0
</codeph></codeblock>
      <ul>
         <li><p>Repeat the query with different values for the stale parameter and show the
               output</p></li>
         <li><p>Attach logs from all nodes in the cluster</p></li>
         <li><p>Try all view related operations, including design document creation/update/deletion,
               from the command line. The goal here to isolate UI problems from the view
            engine.</p></li>
         <li><p>If you suspect the indexer is stuck, blocked, etc, please use curl against the
                  <codeph>_active_tasks</codeph> API to confirm that, the goal again is to isolate
               UI issues from view-engine issues. Example:</p>
            <codeblock><codeph>&gt; curl -s 'http://localhost:9500/_active_tasks' | json_xs
[
   {
      "indexer_type" : "main",
      "started_on" : 1345645088,
      "progress" : 43,
      "initial_build" : true,
      "updated_on" : 1345645157,
      "total_changes" : 250000,
      "design_documents" : [
         "_design/test"
      ],
      "pid" : "&lt;0.5948.0&gt;",
      "changes_done" : 109383,
      "signature" : "4995c136d926bdaf94fbe183dbf5d5aa",
      "type" : "indexer",
      "set" : "default"
   }
]
</codeph></codeblock></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Note that the <codeph>started_on</codeph> and <codeph>update_on</codeph> fields are UNIX
         timestamps. There are tools (even online) and programming language APIs (Perl, Python, etc)
         to convert them into human readable form, including date and time. Note that the
            <codeph>_active_tasks</codeph> API contains information per node, so you’ll have to
         query <codeph>_active_tasks</codeph> or every node in the cluster to verify if progress is
         stuck, etc.</p>
   </body>
   <related-links>
      <linklist>
         <title>Collected links</title>
         <link href="http://www.couchbase.com/issues" scope="external" format="html">
            <linktext>couchbase.com/issues</linktext>
         </link>
      </linklist>
   </related-links>
</topic>
