<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/Tasks?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/Tasks/?><?path2project ../?><concept xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="concept_fz1_vxf_q4" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic concept)                            (topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)    " class="- topic/topic concept/concept " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="concept:1;3:34">
 <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="title:1;4:9">Common rebalancing questions</title>
 <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;5:13">Some common questions and answers are addresses for the rebalancing operation.</shortdesc>
 <conbody class="- topic/body  concept/conbody " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="conbody:1;6:11">
  
  
  <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="ul:1;9:7">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="li:1;10:9"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="b:1;10:12">How long will rebalancing take?</b></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:1;11:12">Because the rebalancing operation moves data stored in RAM and on disk, and continues
    while the cluster is still servicing client requests, the time required to perform the
    rebalancing operation is unique to each cluster. Other factors, such as the size and number of
    objects, speed of the underlying disks used for storage, and the network bandwidth and capacity
    will also impact the rebalance speed.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:2;15:49">Busy clusters may take a significant amount of time
     to complete the rebalance operation. Similarly, clusters with a large quantity of data to be
     moved between nodes on the cluster will also take some time for the operation to complete. A
     busy cluster with lots of data may take a significant amount of time to fully rebalance.</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="ul:2;18:102">
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="li:2;19:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="b:2;19:14">How many nodes can be added or removed?</b></li>
     </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:3;20:14">Functionally there is no limit to the number of nodes that can be added or removed in one
      operation. However, from a practical level you should be conservative about the numbers of nodes
      being added or removed at one time.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:4;22:49">When expanding your cluster, adding more nodes and
       performing fewer rebalances is the recommend practice.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:5;23:69">When removing nodes, you should
        take care to ensure that you do not remove too many nodes and significantly reduce the
        capability and functionality of your cluster.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:6;25:61">Remember as well that you can remove nodes,
         and add nodes, simultaneously. If you are planning on performing a number of addition and
         removals simultaneously, it is better to add and remove multiple nodes and perform one
         rebalance, than to perform a rebalance operation with each individual move.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:7;28:92">If you are
          swapping out nodes for servicing, then you can use this method to keep the size and performance
          of your cluster constant.</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="ul:3;30:44">
           <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="li:3;31:16"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="b:3;31:19">Will cluster performance be affected during a rebalance?</b></li>
          </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:8;32:19">By design, there should not be any significant impact on the performance of your
           application. However, it should be obvious that a rebalance operation implies a significant
           additional load on the nodes in your cluster, particularly the network and disk I/O performance
           as data is transferred between the nodes.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:9;35:60">Ideally, you should perform a rebalance
            operation during the quiet periods to reduce the impact on your running applications.</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="ul:4;36:106">
             <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="li:4;37:18"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="b:4;37:21">Can I stop a rebalance operation?</b></li>
            </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:10;38:21">The vBuckets within the cluster are moved individually. This means that you can stop a
             rebalance operation at any time. Only the vBuckets that have been fully migrated will have been
             made active. You can re-start the rebalance operation at any time to continue the process.
             Partially migrated vBuckets are not activated.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:11;41:67">The one exception to this rule is when
              removing nodes from the cluster. Stopping the rebalance cancels their removal. You will need to
              mark these nodes again for removal before continuing the rebalance operation.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-questions.dita" xtrc="p:12;43:99">To ensure
               that the necessary clean up occurs, stopping a rebalance incurs a five minute grace period
               before the rebalance can be restarted. This ensures that the cluster is in a fixed state before
               rebalance is requested
               again.</p>
        
 </conbody>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:56;65:53" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " mapclass="- map/topicref " type="topic" xtrc="topicref:47;56:47" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap" href="../Tasks/tasks-rebalance.dita" role="parent"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Rebalancing</linktext></link></linkpool></related-links>
</concept>