<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/Tasks?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/Tasks/?><?path2project ../?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="topic_ynd_gm2_q4" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)    " class="- topic/topic " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="topic:1;3:30">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="title:1;4:10">Rebalancing factors</title>
  <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;5:14">Choosing when, why, and how to rebalance your cluster depends on the scenario.</shortdesc>
  <body class="- topic/body " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="body:1;6:9">
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:1;7:8">Choosing when each of situations applies is not always straightforward. In general, the
      followith typical triggers and indicators define when to change the node configuration and
      when to perform a rebalance.</p>
    
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="section:1;11:14"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="title:2;11:21">When to expand your cluster</title>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:2;12:8">You can increase the size of your cluster by adding more nodes. Adding more
          nodes increases the available RAM, disk I/O and network bandwidth available to your client
          applications and helps to spread the load around more machines. There are a few different
          metrics and statistics that you can use on which to base your decision:</p>
    
    <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="ul:1;17:9">
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:1;18:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="b:1;18:14">Increasing RAM capacity</b>
          <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:3;19:14">One of the most important components in a Couchbase Server cluster is the amount of RAM
            available. RAM not only stores application data and supports the Couchbase Server
            caching layer, it is also actively used for other operations by the server, and a
            reduction in the overall available RAM may cause performance problems
            elsewhere.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:4;23:30">The following are common indicators for increasing your RAM capacity
            within your cluster: </p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="ul:2;24:42">
            <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:2;25:17">If you see more disk fetches occurring, that means that your application is
              requesting more and more data from disk that is not available in RAM. Increasing the
              RAM in a cluster will allow it to store more data and therefore provide better
              performance to your application.</li>
            <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:3;29:17">If you want to add more buckets to your Couchbase Server cluster you may need more
              RAM to do so. Adding nodes will increase the overall capacity of the system and then
              you can shrink any existing buckets in order to make room for new ones.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:4;34:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="b:2;34:14">Increasing disk I/O throughput</b>
        <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:5;35:12">By adding nodes to a Couchbase Server cluster, you will increase the aggregate amount of 
          disk I/O that can be performed across the cluster. This is especially important in high-write 
          environments, but can also be a factor when you need to read large amounts of data from the disk.</p></li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:5;38:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="b:3;38:14">Increasing disk capacity</b>
        <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:6;39:12">You can either add more disk space to your current nodes or add more nodes to add aggregate disk space to the cluster.</p>
      </li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:6;41:11"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="b:4;41:14">Increasing network bandwidth</b>
        <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:7;42:12">If you see that you are or are close to saturating the network bandwidth of your cluster, 
          this is a very strong indicator of the need for more nodes. More nodes will cause the overall 
          network bandwidth required to be spread out across additional nodes, which will reduce the 
          individual bandwidth of each node.</p>
      </li>
    </ul>
    </section>
      
      
      
      <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="section:2;52:16"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="title:3;52:23">When to shrink your cluster</title>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:8;53:8">Choosing to shrink a Couchbase cluster is a more subjective decision. It is
          usually based upon cost considerations, or a change in application requirements not requiring as
          large a cluster to support the required load.</p>
        
        <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:9;57:12">When choosing whether to shrink a cluster:</p>
        <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="ul:3;58:13">
              <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:7;59:19">You should ensure you have enough capacity in the remaining nodes to support your dataset
                and application load. Removing nodes may have a significant detrimental effect on your cluster
                if there are not enough nodes.</li>
              <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:8;62:19">You should avoid removing multiple nodes at once if you are trying to determine the ideal
                cluster size. Instead, remove each node one at a time to understand the impact on the cluster
                as a whole.</li>
              <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:9;65:19">You should remove and rebalance a node, rather than using failover. When a node fails and
                is not coming back to the cluster, the failover functionality will promote its replica
                vBuckets to become active immediately. If a healthy node is failed over, there might be some
                data loss for the replication data that was in flight during that operation. Using the remove
                functionality will ensure that all data is properly replicated and continuously
                available.</li>
            </ul>
      </section>
    
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="section:3;74:14"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="title:4;74:21">When to rebalance your cluster</title>

    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="p:10;76:8">Once you decide to add or remove nodes, consider the folloiwng:</p>
      <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="ul:4;77:11">
                <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:10;78:21">If you’re planning on adding and/or removing multiple nodes in a short period of time, it
                  is best to add them all at once and then kick-off the rebalancing operation rather than
                  rebalance after each addition. This will reduce the overall load placed on the system as well
                  as the amount of data that needs to be moved.</li>
                <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:11;82:21">Choose a quiet time for adding nodes. While the rebalancing operation is meant to be
                  performed online, it is not a “free” operation and will undoubtedly put increased load on the
                  system as a whole in the form of disk IO, network bandwidth, CPU resources and RAM
                  usage.</li>
                <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:12;86:21">Voluntary rebalancing (i.e. not part of a failover situation) should be performed during
                  a period of low usage of the system. Rebalancing is a comparatively resource intensive
                  operation as the data is redistributed around the cluster and you should avoid performing a
                  rebalance during heavy usage periods to avoid having a detrimental affect on overall cluster
                  performance.</li>
                <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/rebalance-factors.dita" xtrc="li:13;91:21">Rebalancing requires moving large amounts of data around the cluster. The more RAM that
                  is available will allow the operating system to cache more disk access which will allow it to
                  perform the rebalancing operation much faster. If there is not enough memory in your cluster
                  the rebalancing may be very slow. It is recommended that you don’t wait for your cluster to
                  reach full capacity before adding new nodes and rebalancing.</li>
              </ul>
    </section>
    
  </body>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:52;61:51" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " mapclass="- map/topicref " type="topic" xtrc="topicref:47;56:47" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap" href="../Tasks/tasks-rebalance.dita" role="parent"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Rebalancing</linktext></link></linkpool></related-links>
</topic>