<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/Tasks?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/Tasks/?><?path2project ../?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us" id="topic11042" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)    " class="- topic/topic " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="topic:1;4:41">
 <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="title:1;5:9">Database and view compaction</title>
 <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;6:13">Database and view compaction helps to reclaim disk space and reduce fragmentation.</shortdesc>
 <body class="- topic/body " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="body:1;7:8">
  <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:1;8:6">The data files in which information is stored in a persistent state for a Couchbase Bucket are
   written to and updated as information is appended, updated and deleted. This process can
   eventually lead to gaps within the data file (particularly when data is deleted) which can be
   reclaimed using a process called compaction.</p>
  <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:2;12:6">The index files that are created each time a view is built are also written in a sequential
   format. Updated index information is appended to the file as updates to the stored information is
   indexed.</p>
  <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:3;15:6">In both these cases, frequent compaction of the files on disk can help to reclaim disk space
   and reduce fragmentation.</p>

  <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="section:1;18:12"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="title:2;18:19">Compaction process</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:4;18:48"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:1;18:51">How it works</b></p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:5;18:74">Couchbase compacts views
    and data files. For database compaction, a new file is created into which the active (non-stale)
    information is written. Meanwhile, the existing database files stay in place and continue to be
    used for storing information and updating the index data. This process ensures that the database
    continues to be available while compaction takes place. Once compaction is completed, the old
    database is disabled and saved. Then any incoming updates continue in the newly created database
    files. The old database is then deleted from the system.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:6;24:68">View compaction occurs in the
    same way. Couchbase creates a new index file for each active design document. Then Couchbase
    takes this new index file and writes active index information into it. Old index files are
    handled in the same way old data files are handled during compaction. Once compaction is
    complete, the old index files are deleted from the system.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:7;28:70"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:2;28:73">How to use
    it</b></p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:8;29:18">Compaction takes place as a background process while Couchbase Server is running.
    You do not need to shutdown or pause your database operation, and clients can continue to access
    and submit requests while the database is running. While compaction takes place in the
    background, you need to pay attention to certain factors.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:9;32:69">Make sure you perform
    compaction…</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:1;33:24">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:1;34:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:10;34:12"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:3;34:15">… on every server:</b> Compaction operates on only a single server within your
      Couchbase Server cluster. You will need to perform compaction on each node in your cluster, on
      each database in your cluster.</p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:2;37:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:11;37:12"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:4;37:15">… during off-peak hours:</b> The compaction process is both disk and CPU intensive. In
      heavy-write based databases where compaction is required, the compaction should be scheduled
      during off-peak hours (use auto-compact to schedule specific times).</p></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:12;40:12">If compaction isn’t scheduled during off-peak hours, it can cause problems. Because the
    compaction process can take a long to complete on large and busy databases, it is possible for
    the compaction process to fail to complete properly while the database is still active. In
    extreme cases, this can lead to the compaction process never catching up with the database
    modifications, and eventually using up all the disk space. Schedule compaction during off-peak
    hours to prevent this!</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:2;45:35">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:3;46:9"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:5;46:12">… with adequate disk space:</b> Because compaction occurs by creating new files and
     updating the information, you may need as much as twice the disk space of your current database
     and index files for compaction to take place.</li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:13;49:12">However, it is important to keep in mind that the exact amount of the disk space required
    depends on the level of fragmentation, the amount of dead data and the activity of the database,
    as changes during compaction will also need to be written to the updated data
    files.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:14;52:18">Before compaction takes place, the disk space is checked. If the amount of
    available disk space is less than twice the current database size, the compaction process does
    not take place and a warning is issued in the log.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:15;54:62"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:6;54:65">Compaction
    Behavior</b></p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:3;55:25">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:4;56:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:16;56:12"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:7;56:15">Stop/Restart:</b> The compaction process can be stopped and restarted. However, you
      should be aware that the if the compaction process is stopped, further updates to database are
      completed, and then the compaction process is restarted, the updated database may not be a
      clean compacted version. This is because any changes to the portion of the database file that
      were processed before the compaction was canceled and restarted have already been
      processed.</p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:5;62:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:17;62:12"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:8;62:15">Auto-compaction:</b> Auto-compaction automatically triggers the compaction process on
      your database. You can schedule specific hours when compaction can take place.</p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:6;64:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:18;64:12"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:9;64:15">Compaction activity log:</b> Compaction activity is reported in the Couchbase Server
      log. You will see entries similar to following showing the compaction operation and
      duration:</p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:7;67:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:19;67:12"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:10;67:15">Compaction activity log:</b> Compaction activity is reported in the Couchbase Server
      log. You can see the following items for compaction:</p>
     <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:4;69:10">
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:8;70:11"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:20;70:14"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:11;70:17">Autocompaction</b> Indicates compaction cannot be performed because of inadequate
        disk space</p></li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:9;72:11"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:21;72:14"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:12;72:17">Manually triggered compaction</b></p></li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:10;73:11"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:22;73:14">Compaction completed successfully</p></li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:11;74:11"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:23;74:14">Compaction failed</p></li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:12;75:11"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:24;75:14"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:13;75:17">Purge deletes compaction</b></p></li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:13;76:11"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:25;76:14">Compaction started/completed</p></li>
      <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:14;77:11"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:26;77:14">Compaction failed</p></li>
     </ul>
     </li>
   </ul>
  </section>
  <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="section:2;82:12"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="title:3;82:19">Auto-compaction configuration</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:27;82:59">Couchbase Server incorporates an automated
    compaction mechanism that can compact both data files and the view index files, based on
    triggers that measure the current fragmentation level within the database and view index data
    files.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:28;85:18">Note</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:29;85:29">Spatial indexes are not automatically compacted. Spatial indexes must be
    compacted manually.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:30;86:31">Auto-compaction can be configured in two ways:</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:5;86:85">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:15;87:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:31;87:12"><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="i:1;87:15">Default Auto-Compaction</i> affects all the Couchbase Buckets within your Couchbase
      Server. If you set the default Auto-Compaction settings for your Couchbase server then
      auto-compaction is enabled for all Couchbase Buckets automatically. </p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:16;90:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:32;90:12"><i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="i:2;90:15">Bucket Auto-Compaction</i> can be set on individual Couchbase Buckets. The
      bucket-level compaction always overrides any default auto-compaction settings, including if
      you have not configured any default auto-compaction settings. You can choose to explicitly
      override the Couchbase Bucket specific settings when editing or creating a new Couchbase
      Bucket. </p></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:33;95:12">The available settings for both default Auto-Compaction and Couchbase Bucket specific
    settings are identical:</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:6;96:36">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:17;97:9"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:14;97:12">Database Fragmentation</b></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:34;98:12">The primary setting is the percentage level within the database at which compaction
    occurs. The figure is expressed as a percentage of fragmentation for each item, and you can set
    the fragmentation level at which the compaction process will be triggered.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:35;100:86">For example, if
    you set the fragmentation percentage at 10%, the moment the fragmentation level has been
    identified, the compaction process will be started, unless you have time limited
    auto-compaction. SeeTime Period.</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:7;103:45">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:18;104:9"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:15;104:12">View Fragmentation</b></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:36;105:12">The View Fragmentation specifies the percentage of fragmentation within all the view
    index files at which compaction will be triggered, expressed as a percentage.</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:8;106:90">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:19;107:9"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:16;107:12">Time Period</b></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:37;108:12">To prevent auto compaction taking place when your database is in heavy use, you can
    configure a time during which compaction is allowed. This is expressed as the hour and minute
    combination between which compaction occurs. For example, you could configure compaction to take
    place between 01:00 and 06:00.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:38;111:42">If compaction is identified as required outside of these
    hours, compaction will be delayed until the specified time period is reached. The time period is
    applied every day while the Couchbase Server is active. The time period cannot be configured on
    a day-by-day basis.</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:9;114:32">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:20;115:9"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:17;115:12">Compaction abortion</b></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:39;116:12">The compaction process can be configured so that if the time period during which
    compaction is allowed ends while the compaction process is still completing, the entire
    compaction process will be terminated. This option affects the compaction process:</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:40;118:94">If this
    option is enabled, and compaction is running, the process will be stopped. The files generated
    during the compaction process will be kept, and compaction will be restarted when the next time
    period is reached.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:41;121:30">This can be a useful setting if want to ensure the performance of your
    Couchbase Server during a specified time period, as this will ensure that compaction is never
    running outside of the specified time period.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:42;123:57">If this option is disabled and the
    compaction is running when the time period ends, compaction will continue suntil the process has
    been completed.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:43;125:27">Using this option can be useful if you want to ensure that the compaction
    process completes.</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:10;126:31">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:21;127:9"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:18;127:12">Parallel Compaction</b></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:44;128:12">By default, compaction operates sequentially, executing first on the database and then
    the Views if both are configured for auto-compaction. If you enable parallel compaction, both
    the databases and the views can be compacted at the same time. This requires more CPU and
    database activity for both to be processed simultaneously, but if you have CPU cores and disk
    I/O (for example, if the database and view index information is stored on different physical
    disk devices), the two can complete in a shorter time.</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:11;133:67">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:22;134:9"><b class="+ topic/ph hi-d/b " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="b:19;134:12">Metadata Purge Interval</b></li>
   </ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:45;135:12">You can remove tombstones for expired and deleted items as part of the auto-compaction
    process. Tombstones are records containing the key and metadata for deleted and expired items
    and are used for eventually consistency between clusters and for views.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:46;137:83">Configuration of
    auto-compaction is through Couchbase Web Console. Information on
    per-bucket settings is through the Couchbase Bucket create/edit screen. . You can also view and change these settings using the REST API,</p>
   
  </section>
  <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="section:3;142:12"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="title:4;142:19">Auto-compaction strategies</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:47;142:56">The exact fragmentation and scheduling
    settings for auto-compaction should be chosen carefully to ensure that your database performance
    and compaction performance meet your requirements.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:48;144:62">You want to consider the following:</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="ul:12;144:105">
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:23;145:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:49;145:12">You should monitor the compaction process to determine how long it takes to compact your
      database. This will help you identify and schedule a suitable time-period for auto-compaction
      to occur.</p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:24;148:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:50;148:12">Compaction affects the disk space usage of your database, but should not affect
      performance. Frequent compaction runs on a small database file are unlikely to cause problems,
      but frequent compaction on a large database file may impact the performance and disk
      usage.</p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:25;152:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:51;152:12">Compaction can be terminated at any time. This means that if you schedule compaction for
      a specific time period, but then require the additional resources being used for compaction
      you can terminate the compaction and restart during another off-peak period.</p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:26;155:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:52;155:12">Because compaction can be stopped and restarted it is possible to indirectly trigger an
      incremental compaction. For example, if you configure a one-hour compaction period, enable
      Compaction abortion, and compaction takes 4 hours to complete, compaction will incrementally
      take place over four days.</p></li>
    <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="li:27;159:9"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="p:53;159:12">When you have a large number of Couchbase buckets on which you want to use
      auto-compaction, you may want to schedule your auto-compaction time period for each bucket in
      a staggered fashion so that compaction on each bucket can take place within a it’s own unique
      time period.</p></li>
   </ul></section>
 </body>
 <related-links class="- topic/related-links " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="related-links:1;165:17"><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:43;52:49" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " mapclass="- map/topicref " type="topic" xtrc="topicref:34;42:43" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap" href="../Tasks/tasks-common.dita" role="parent"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Common administrative tasks</linktext></link></linkpool>
  <linklist class="- topic/linklist " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="linklist:1;166:13">
   <link href="../UI/ui-settings.dita" class="- topic/link " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="link:1;167:40" type="topic"><?ditaot gentext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext ">Settings</linktext><?ditaot genshortdesc?><desc class="- topic/desc ">The <uicontrol class="+ topic/ph ui-d/uicontrol " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/UI/ui-settings.dita" xtrc="uicontrol:1;6:29">Settings</uicontrol> section provides configuration and information      for the cluster, update notifications, auto failover, alerts, auto compaction, sample buckets, and account management.</desc></link>
   <link href="../UI/ui-logs.dita" class="- topic/link " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="link:2;168:36" type="topic"><?ditaot gentext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext ">Log</linktext><?ditaot genshortdesc?><desc class="- topic/desc ">The Log section provides a built-in event log for Couchbase Server.</desc></link>
   <link href="../UI/ui-data-buckets.dita" class="- topic/link " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="link:3;169:44" type="topic"><?ditaot gentext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext ">Data Buckets</linktext></link>
   <link href="../REST/compaction-rest-api.dita" class="- topic/link " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Tasks/tasks-compaction.dita" xtrc="link:4;170:50" type="topic"><?ditaot gentext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext ">Compaction REST API</linktext></link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>