<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1408"><title>Connect String</title><body><p>A connect string option is required in order to connect to Couchbase. This can
be specified with <codeph>--connect</codeph> on the command line. Below are two examples of
connect strings.</p><p><codeph>
http://10.2.1.55:8091/pools
http://10.2.1.55:8091/pools,http://10.2.1.56:8091/pools
</codeph></p><p>When creating your connect strings simply replace the IP address above with the
IP address of your Couchbase sever. If you have multiple servers you can list
them in a comma-separated list.</p><p>Why list multiple servers? Let’s say you create a backfill stream for 10,080
minutes or one week. In that time period you might have a server crash, have to
add another server, or remove a server from your cluster. Providing an address
to each server allows an import and export command to proceed through topology
changes to your cluster. In the first example above if you had a two-node
cluster and 10.2.1.55 goes down then the import will fail even though the entire
cluster didn’t go down. If you list both machines then the import will continue
unaffected by the downed server and your import will complete successfully.</p><section><title>Connecting to different buckets</title><p>By default the Couchbase plugin connects to the default bucket. If you want to
connect to a bucket other than the default bucket you can specify the bucket
name with the <codeph>--username</codeph> option. If you have to connect to a SASL bucket use
the <codeph>--password</codeph> option followed by the buckets password.</p></section></body></topic>