<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2659">
	<title>Network ports</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server specific network ports for communication between server components
		and for communicating with the clients that access the data stored in the Couchbase
		cluster.</shortdesc>
	<body>
		<p>The ports listed must be available on the host for Couchbase Server to run and operate
			correctly. Couchbase Server configures these ports automatically, but you must ensure
			that your firewall or IP tables configuration allow communication on the specified ports
			for each usage type. On Linux, the installer will notify you that you need to open these
			ports.</p>
		<p>The following table lists the ports used for different types of communication with
			Couchbase Server, as follows:</p>
		
		<ul>
			<li>Node to node<p>These ports are used by Couchbase Server
					for communication between all nodes within the cluster. You must have these ports
					open on all to enable nodes to communicate with each other.</p>
			</li>
			<li>Node to client<p>These ports are used communication between nodes within a cluster and by
					client nodes accessing data within a cluster.</p>
			</li>
			<li>Cluster administration<p>These ports are used for Couchbase administration including the REST API, command-line
					clients, and Web browser.</p>
			</li>
			<li>XDCR<p>These ports are used for XDCR communication between all nodes in both the source and
					destination clusters.</p></li>
		</ul>
		
		<table>
				<tgroup cols="7">
				<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.35*"/>
				<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.43*"/>
				<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="1*"/>
				<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="1.16*"/>
				<colspec colname="col5" colwidth="1.35*"/>
				<colspec colname="col6" colwidth="1.02*"/>
				<colspec colname="col7" colwidth="1.15*"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Port</entry>
						<entry>Description</entry>
						<entry>Node to node</entry>
						<entry>Node to client</entry>
						<entry>Cluster admin</entry>
						<entry>XDCR v1</entry>
						<entry>XDCR v2</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>8091</entry>
						<entry>Web Administration Port</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>8092</entry>
						<entry>Couchbase API Port</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>11207</entry>
						<entry>Internal/External Bucket Port for SSL</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>11209</entry>
						<entry>Internal Bucket Port</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>11210</entry>
						<entry>Internal/External Bucket Port</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>11211</entry>
						<entry>Client interface (proxy)</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>11214</entry>
						<entry>Incoming SSL Proxy</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>11215</entry>
						<entry>Internal Outgoing SSL Proxy</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>18091</entry>
						<entry>Internal REST HTTPS for SSL</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>18092</entry>
						<entry>Internal CAPI HTTPS for SSL</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>4369</entry>
						<entry>Erlang Port Mapper ( <codeph>epmd</codeph> )</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>21100 to 21199 (inclusive)</entry>
						<entry>Node data exchange</entry>
						<entry>Yes</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No</entry>
						<entry>No </entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
			</table>
		
		<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt>Port 8091</dt>
					<dd>Used by the web console for REST/HTTP traffic.</dd>
				</dlentry>


				<dlentry>
					<dt>Port 8092</dt>
					<dd>Used to access views, run queries, and update design documents.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Port 11207</dt>
				<dd>Used by smart client libraries to access data nodes using SSL.</dd>
			</dlentry>


				<dlentry>
					<dt>Port 11210</dt>
					<dd>Used by smart client libraries or Moxi to directly connect to the data nodes.</dd>
				</dlentry>


				<dlentry>
					<dt>Port 11211</dt>
					<dd>Used by pre-existing Couchbase and memcached (non-smart) client libraries.</dd>
				</dlentry>


				<dlentry>
					<dt>Ports 11214 and 11215</dt>
					<dd>Used for SSL XDCR data encryptions.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Port 18091</dt>
				<dd>Used by the web console for REST/HTTP traffic with SSL.</dd>
			</dlentry>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>Port 18092</dt>
				<dd>Used to access views, run queries, and update design documents with SSL.</dd>
			</dlentry>


				<dlentry>
					<dt>All other Ports</dt>
					<dd>Used for other Couchbase Server communications.</dd>
				</dlentry>

			</dl>

	</body>
</topic>
