<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1723"><title>Resource requirements</title><body><p>The following hardware requirements are recommended for installation:</p><ul>
<li><p>Quad-core for key-value store, 64-bit CPU running at 3GHz</p></li>
<li><p>Six cores if you use XDCR and views.</p></li>
<li><p>16GB RAM (physical)</p></li>
<li><p>Block-based storage device (hard disk, SSD, EBS, iSCSI). Network filesystems
 (e.g. CIFS, NFS) are not supported.</p></li>
</ul><p>A minimum specification machine should have the following characteristics:</p><ul>
<li><p>Dual-core CPU running at 2GHz for key-value store</p></li>
<li><p>4GB RAM (physical)</p></li>
</ul><p>Note</p><p>
For development and testing purposes a reduced CPU and RAM than the minimum
specified can be used. This can be as low as 1GB of free RAM beyond operating
system requirements and a single CPU core. However, you should not use a
configuration lower than that specified in production. Performance on machines
lower than the minimum specification will be significantly lower and should not
be used as an indication of the performance on a production machine.
</p><p>View performance on machines with less than 2 CPU cores will be significantly
reduced.
</p><p>You must have enough memory to run your operating system and the memory reserved
for use by Couchbase Server. For example, if you want to dedicate 8GB of RAM to
Couchbase Server you must have enough RAM to host your operating system. If you
are running additional applications and servers, you will need additional RAM.
For smaller systems, such as those with less than 16GB you should allocate at
least 40% of RAM to your operating system.</p><p>You must have the following amount of storage available:</p><ul>
<li><p>1GB for application logging</p></li>
<li><p>At least twice the disk space to match your physical RAM for persistence of
 information</p></li>
</ul><p>For information and recommendations on server and cluster sizing, see <xref href="../cb-admin/#couchbase-bestpractice-sizing" format="html">Sizing
Guidelines</xref>.</p></body><related-links><linklist><title>Collected links</title><link href="../cb-admin/#couchbase-bestpractice-sizing" format="html"><linktext>Sizing
Guidelines</linktext></link></linklist></related-links></topic>