<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3637">
 <title>Mac OS X installation</title>
 <body>
  <p>Before you install, make sure you check the supported platforms.
   Couchbase Server on Mac OS X is for development purposes only. The Mac OS X installation uses a
   Zip file which contains a standalone application that can be copied to the
    <codeph>Applications</codeph> folder or to any other location you choose. The installation
   location is not the same as the location of the Couchbase data files.</p>
  <p>Please use the default archive file handler in Mac OS X, Archive Utility, when you unpack the
   Couchbase Server distribution. It is more difficult to diagnose non-functioning or damaged
   installations after extraction by other third party archive extraction tools.</p>
  
  <note type="warning">Due to limitations within the Mac OS X operating system, the Mac OS X implementation is
   incompatible with other operating systems. It is not possible either to mix operating systems
   within the same cluster, or configure XDCR between a Mac OS X and Windows or Linux cluster. If
   you need to move data between a Mac OS X cluster and a cluster hosted on another platform, use
   `cbbackup` and `cbrestore`. For more information, see [Backup and Restore Between Mac OS X and
   Other Platforms](../cb-admin/#couchbase-backup-restore-mac). </note>
  
  
  <section><title>Installing on Mac OS X</title>
   <p>To install:</p><ol>
    <li>Delete any previous installs of Couchbase Server at the command line or by dragging the icon
     to the Trash can.</li>
    <li>Remove remaining files from previous
     installations:
     <codeblock>
&gt; rm -rf ~/Library/Application Support/Couchbase
&gt; rm -rf ~/Library/Application Support/Membase
</codeblock>
    </li>
    <li>Download the Mac OS X zip file.</li>
    <li>Double-click the downloaded Zip installation file to extract the server. This creates a
     single folder, the <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> application.</li>
    <li>Drag and Drop <codeph>Couchbase Server.app</codeph> to your chosen installation folder, such
     as the system <codeph>Applications</codeph> folder.</li>
   </ol><p>After the installation completes, you can double-click on <codeph>Couchbase
     Server.app</codeph> to start it. The Couchbase Server icon appears in the menu bar on the
    right-hand side. If you have not yet configured your server, then the Couchbase Web Console
    opens and you should to complete the Couchbase Server setup process. </p>
   <p>The Couchbase application runs as a background application. If you click on the
    icon in the menu bar you see a list of operations that can be performed.</p>
   <p>The command line
    tools are included in the Couchbase Server application directory. You can access them in
    Terminal by using the full path of the Couchbase Server installation. By default, this is
     <codeph>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/</codeph>.</p>
  </section>
  
  
 </body>
 <related-links>
  <linklist><title>Related topics</title>
   <link href="../Install/install-platforms.dita"/>
   <link href="../Install/mac-startup-shutdown.dita"/>
   
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
