<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ldx_gqs_g4">
  <title>Installing on RHEL</title>
  <body>
    
    <p>To install Couchbase Server, use the <codeph>rpm</codeph> command-line tool with the RPM
      package that was downloaded. Log in as root (Superuser) to complete the installation:</p>
      <codeblock>
root-&gt; rpm --install couchbase-server version.rpm 
     </codeblock>
      <p>Where <codeph>version</codeph> is the version number of the downloaded package.</p>
      <p>Once the <codeph>rpm</codeph> command completes, Couchbase Server starts automatically, and
        is configured to automatically start during boot under the 2, 3, 4, and 5 runlevels. Refer to
        the Red Hat RPM documentation for more information about installing packages using RPM.</p>
      <p>After installation finishes, the installation process displays a message similar to that
        below:</p>
      <codeblock>
Minimum RAM required : 4 GB 
    System RAM configured : 8174464 KB
    Minimum number of processors required :  4 cores 
    Number of processors on the system : 4 cores
    
    
Starting couchbase-server[ OK ]

You have successfully installed Couchbase Server. 
    Please browse to http://host_name:8091/ to configure your server. 
    Please refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.

    Please note that you have to update your firewall configuration 
    to allow connections to the following ports: 
   
    11211, 11210, 11209, 4369, 8091, 8092 and from 21100 to 21299.


By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement. 
See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.
     </codeblock>
    
    
    <p>Once installed, use the Red Hat <codeph>chkconfig</codeph> command to manage the
      Couchbase Server service, including checking the current status and creating the links to enable
      and disable automatic start-up. To do the
      initial setup for Couchbase, open a web browser and access the Couchbase Web Console.</p>
    
  </body>
</topic>
