<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1601">
  <title>Couchbase setup overview</title>
  <body>
    <p>To start using Couchbase Server, follow these steps:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Make sure your machine meets the system requirements.</li>
      <li>Install Couchbase Server. <p>To install Couchbase Server on your machine, download the
          appropriate package for your chosen platform. For each platform, follow the corresponding
          platform-specific instructions. </p><ul>
          <li>To perfom a fresh installation (not an upgrade) over a previous Couchbase Server
            installation, remove Couchbase Server and any associated data from your machine before
            installing.</li>
          <li>To retain existing datasets from a previous Couchbase Server installation, perform an
            upgrade installation.</li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Test the installation by connecting and storing some data using the native Memcached
          protocol.</li>
      <li>Setup the new Couchbase Server system by completing the web-based setup instructions.
          </li>
    </ol>
    <note type="warning">Implement the same operating system on all machines within each discreet
      cluster. If XDCR is used, implement the same operating system on the target cluster(s) as the
      source cluster(s). Mixed clusters and/or mixed XDCR deployments are not supported. There is
      incompatibility due to differences in the number of shards between platforms. </note>
    
    
      <table frame="all" id="table_sqb_db3_mp">
        <title>Example deployments</title>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.08*"/>
          <colspec colname="newCol3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.54*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Scenario</entry>
              <entry>Implementation</entry>
              <entry>Compatibility</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Standalone cluster</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A with 4 nodes all Linux OR all Windows</entry>
              <entry>OK</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Standalone cluster</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A with 2 nodes Linux AND 2 nodes Windows</entry>
              <entry>NOT OK</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Separate discreet clusters</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A = Linux, Cluster B = Windows</entry>
              <entry>OK</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Replicating clusters</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A = Linux with XDCR to Cluster B = Linux</entry>
              <entry>OK</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Replicating clusters</entry>
              <entry>Cluster A = Windows with XDCR to Cluster B = Linux</entry>
              <entry>NOT OK</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="http://www.couchbase.com/downloads" scope="external" format="html">
        <linktext>Couchbase downloads</linktext></link>
      <link href="init-setup.dita"></link>
      <link href="testing.dita"></link>
      <link href="upgrading.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
