<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_us1_cmr_p4">
  <title>Testing installation with telnet</title>
  <shortdesc>The simplest method to determine whether Couchbase Server is running
    is by using Telnet to connect to the server and using the Memcached text protocol.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    
    
    <p>Telnet must be installed on your server to connect to Couchbase Server using this
            method. Telnet is supplied as standard on most platforms, or may be available as a separate
            package that should be easily installable via your operating systems standard package
            manager.</p>
    
    <note type="note">You do not need to use the Telnet method for communicating with your server within your
      application. Instead, use one of the Couchbase SDKs. </note>
    
    <p>Connect to the
              server:</p>
    <codeblock>&gt; telnet localhost1
Trying 127.0.0.1...
Connected to localhost.localdomain (127.0.0.1).
Escape character is '^]'.
</codeblock><p>Make
  sure it’s responding (stats is a great way to check basic
  health):</p>
    <codeblock>stats
STAT delete_misses 0
STAT ep_io_num_write 0
STAT rejected_conns 0
...
STAT time 1286678223
...
STAT curr_items_tot 0
...
STAT threads 4
STAT pid 23871
...
END
</codeblock>
    <p>Put a key in:</p>
    <codeblock>set test_key 0 0 1
a
STORED
</codeblock><p>Retrieve
  the
  key:</p>
    <codeblock>get test_key
VALUE test_key 0 1
a
END
</codeblock>
    <p>Disconnect:</p>
    <codeblock>quit
Connection closed by foreign host.
&gt;
</codeblock><p>All
  of the Memcached protocols commands will work through Telnet.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
