<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3429"><title>Ubuntu Linux installation</title><body><p>Before you install, make sure you check the supported platforms, see <xref href="#topic3429/couchbase-getting-started-prepare-platforms">Supported
Platforms</xref>.</p><section><title>Installing on Ubuntu</title><p>To install:</p><ol>
<li><p>For Ubuntu version 12.04, you need to install a specific OpenSSL dependency by
running:</p>

<p><codeph>
 root-&gt; apt-get install libssl0.9.8
</codeph></p></li>
<li><p>The Ubuntu Couchbase installation uses the DEB package. To install, use the
<codeph>dpkg</codeph> command-line tool using the DEB file that you downloaded. The following
example uses <codeph>sudo</codeph> which will require root-access to allow installation:</p>

<p><codeph>
 &gt; dpkg -i couchbase-server version.deb
</codeph></p>

<p>Where <codeph>version</codeph> is the version number of the downloaded package.</p>

<p>Once the <codeph>dpkg</codeph> command has been executed, the Couchbase server starts
automatically, and is configured to automatically start during boot under the 2,
3, 4, and 5 runlevels. Refer to the Ubuntu documentation for more information
about installing packages using the Debian package manager.</p>

<p>After installation has completed, the installation process will display a
message similar to that below:</p>

<p>```
 Selecting previously deselected package couchbase-server.
 (Reading database … 73755 files and directories currently installed.)
 Unpacking couchbase-server (from couchbase-server_x86_64_2.1.0-xxx-rel.deb) …
 libssl0.9.8 is installed. Continue installing
 Minimum RAM required : 4 GB
 System RAM configured : 4058708 KB</p>

<p>Minimum number of processors required : 4 cores
 Number of processors on the system : 4 cores
 Setting up couchbase-server (2.1) …
 * Started couchbase-server</p>

<p>You have successfully installed Couchbase Server.
 Please browse to http://slv–0501:8091/ to configure your server.
 Please refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.</p>

<p>Please note that you have to update your firewall configuration to
 allow connections to the following ports: 11211, 11210, 11209, 4369,
 8091, 8092 and from 21100 to 21299.</p>

<p>By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement.
 See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.</p>

<p>Processing triggers for ureadahead …
 ureadahead will be reprofiled on next reboot
 ```</p></li>
</ol><p>After successful installation, use the <codeph>service</codeph> command to manage the
Couchbase Server service, including checking the current status. Refer to the
Ubuntu documentation for instructions. To provide initial setup for Couchbase,
open a web browser and access the web administration interface. See <xref href="#topic3429/couchbase-getting-started-setup">Initial
Server Setup</xref>.</p></section><section><title>Installing on Ubuntu as non-root, non-sudo</title><p><b>This installation is for development purposes only.</b> There may be cases when you want to install the server as a non-root, non-sudo
user. If you perform a non-sudo, non-root installation you will be still be able to run Couchbase Server and all
Couchbase command-line tools. To do so on Ubuntu:</p><ol>
<li><p>After you download the Couchbase DEB package, go to the directory where it is
located and extract it:</p>

<p><codeph>
 &gt;  dpkg-deb -x couchbase-server-community_x86_64_2.0.0-1767-rel.deb $HOME
</codeph></p>

<p>In the directory where you extracted the files, you will see <codeph>opt</codeph> and <codeph>etc</codeph>
subdirectories.</p></li>
<li><p>After you extract the Couchbase Server install files, go to the subdirectory:</p>

<p><codeph>
 cd opt/couchbase
</codeph></p></li>
<li><p>Run this password-related script:</p>

<p><codeph>
 ./bin/install/reloc.sh `pwd`
</codeph></p>

<p>This enables you to continue the install as a non-root, non-sudo user.</p></li>
<li><p>To run the server:</p>

<p><codeph>
 ./bin/couchbase-server -- -noinput -detached
</codeph></p></li>
<li><p>To stop the server:</p>

<p><codeph>
 ./bin/couchbase-server -k
</codeph></p></li>
</ol><p>For general instructions on server start-up and shutdown as a sudo or root user,
see <xref href="../cb-admin/#couchbase-admin-basics-running" format="html">Server Startup and Shutdown</xref>.</p></section></body><related-links><linklist><title>Collected links</title><link href="../cb-admin/#couchbase-admin-basics-running" format="html"><linktext>Server Startup and Shutdown</linktext></link></linklist></related-links></topic>