<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2232">
  <title>Uninstalling</title>
  <body>
    <p>If you want to uninstall Couchbase Server from your system you must choose the method
      appropriate for your operating system.</p>
    <p>Before removing Couchbase Server from your system, you should do the following:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><p>Shutdown your Couchbase Server. </p></li>
      <li><p>If your machine is part of an active cluster, you should rebalance your cluster to take
          the node out of your configuration. </p></li>
      <li><p>Update your clients to point to an available node within your Couchbase Server
          cluster.</p></li>
    </ul>
    
    <section><title>Uninstalling on Deb ian/Ubuntu Linux</title><p>To uninstall the software on a
        Ubuntu Linux system, run the following
        command:</p><codeblock><codeph>&gt; sudo dpkg -r couchbase-server
</codeph></codeblock><p>Refer
        to the Ubuntu documentation for more information about uninstalling packages using
          <codeph>dpkg</codeph>.</p><p>You may need to delete the data files associated with your
        installation. The default installation location is <codeph>/opt</codeph>. If you selected an
        alternative location for your data files, you will need to separately delete each data
        directory from your system.</p></section>
    <section><title>Uninstalling on Windows</title><p>To uninstall the software on a Windows system
        you must have Administrator or Power User privileges to uninstall Couchbase.</p><p>To
        remove, choose <codeph>Start</codeph> &gt; <codeph>Settings</codeph> &gt; <codeph>Control
          Panel</codeph>, choose <codeph>Add or Remove Programs</codeph>, and remove the Couchbase
        Server software.</p></section>
    
    
    <section><title>Uninstalling on Mac OS X</title><p>To uninstall on Mac OS X:</p><ol>
        <li>Open the <codeph>Applications</codeph> folder, and then drag the <codeph>Couchbase
            Server</codeph> application to the trash. You may be asked to provide administrator
          credentials to complete the deletion.</li>
        <li>To remove the application data, you will need to delete the <codeph>Couchbase</codeph>
          folder from the <codeph>~/Library/Application Support</codeph> folder for the user that
          ran Couchbase Server.</li>
      </ol></section>
  </body>
</topic>
