<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic19310">
  <title>Upgrading</title>
  <body>
    
    <p>The following are the officially supported upgrade paths for Couchbase Server for both online
      upgrades or offline upgrades:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Couchbase 2.x to a later version of Couchbase 2.x</li>
      <li>Couchbase 2.x to Couchbase 3.0</li>
    </ul>
    <p>You can perform a cluster upgrade in two ways:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Online upgrades</li>
      <li>Offline upgrades</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Prior to upgrade, perform a backup of the files.</p>
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3.23*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Platform</entry>
            <entry>Location</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Linux</entry>
            <entry><codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/config/config.dat</codeph></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Windows</entry>
            <entry><codeph>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\Config\var\lib\couchbase\config\config.dat</codeph></entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
      </table>

    
    <section><title>Upgrading from Community Edition to Enterprise Edition</title>
      <p><b>Use the same
          Couchbase Server version number when upgrading to the Enterprise Edition.</b> Version
        differences may result in a failed upgrade. </p></section>
    
    <section><title>Upgrading to 3.0</title></section>
    
    <p>With encryption access, the following port is reserved for client access to data nodes using
      SSL.</p><table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3.41*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Port</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>11207</entry>
              <entry>Internal/External Bucket Port for SSL</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    
    
    <section><title>Upgrading to 2.5</title>
      
      <p>Before upgrading to 2.5.x</p>
      
      <p>If buckets are using any of
        the following reserved ports, change the port for the bucket. Otherwise, XDCR data
        encryption is unavailable. (This applies to both offline and online upgrades.)
      </p>
      <note type="important">Ensure that the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) reserved ports are
        available prior to using XDCR data encryption. </note>
      
      <p>With XDCR data encryption, the
          following ports are reserved:</p><table>
            <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3.41*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Port</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>11214</entry>
              <entry>Incoming SSL proxy</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>11215</entry>
              <entry>Internal outgoing SSL proxy</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>18091</entry>
              <entry>Internal REST HTTPS for SSL</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>18092</entry>
              <entry>Internal CAPI HTTPS for SSL </entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
          </table>
      
      <note type="note">If Couchbase Server 2.5 has more than two (2) replicas, the first swap rebalance takes additional time. 
        This behavior is expected.</note>
    
        <note type="restriction">The RPM package manager does not support the  
        <codeph>--relocate</codeph> option because it cannot correctly detect which release should be kept and which should be replaced. 
        As result, all binary files and their wrapper scripts cannot be correctly installed into the relocated bin directory 
        during upgrade.
      </note>
    </section>
    
    
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../CLI/cbbackup_tool.dita"></link>
      <link href="../CLI/cbrestore_tool.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
