<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_dgv_nky_p4">
  <title>Online upgrades</title>
  <body>
    <p>You can upgrade your cluster without taking your
      cluster down and so your application keeps running during the upgrade process. There are two
      ways you can perform this process: as a standard online upgrade, or as a swap rebalance. We
      highly recommend using a swap rebalance for online upgrade so that cluster capacity is
      always maintained. The standard online upgrade should only be used if swap rebalance is not
      possible.</p>
    <p>Using the standard online upgrade, you take down one or two nodes from a
        cluster, and rebalance so that remaining nodes handle incoming requests. This is an approach
        you use if you have enough remaining cluster capacity to handle the nodes you remove and
        upgrade. You will need to perform rebalance twice for every node you upgrade: the first time
        to move data onto remaining nodes, and a second time to move data onto the new nodes.
      </p>
    <p>Standard online upgrades may take a while because each node must be taken out of the
        cluster, upgraded to a current version, brought back into the cluster, and then rebalanced.
        However since you can upgrade the cluster without taking the cluster down, you may prefer
        this upgrade method. </p>
    <p>For swap rebalance, you add a node to the cluster then perform a
          swap rebalance to shift data from an old node to a new node. You might prefer this approach
          if you do not have enough cluster capacity to handle data when you remove an old node. This
          upgrade process is also much quicker than performing a standard online upgrade because you
          only need to rebalance each upgraded node once. </p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../Tasks/tasks-rebalance.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
