<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1367">
  <title>Startup and shutdown on Windows</title>
  <body>
    <p>On Windows, Couchbase Server is installed as a Windows service. You can use the
        <codeph>Services</codeph> tab within the Windows Task Manager to start and stop Couchbase
      Server.</p>
    
    <p>You will need power user or administrator privileges, or have been separately granted the
      rights to manage services to start and stop Couchbase Server. 
      By default, the service automatically starts when the machine boots. </p>
    
    <p>Couchbase can be started and stopped via:
      <ul>
        <li>Windows Task Manager</li>
        <li>Windows system <codeph>net</codeph> command</li>
        <li>Couchbase-supplied <codeph>.bat</codeph> scripts</li>
      </ul>
    </p>
    
    <section><title>Via Windows Task Manager</title>
    
    <p>To manually start the service from the Windows interface:
      <ol>
        <li>Open the Windows Task Manager and choose the <uicontrol>Services</uicontrol> tab to open
            the Services management console. <p>Alternatively, select the
                <uicontrol>Start</uicontrol>, choose <uicontrol>Run</uicontrol> and then type
                <codeph>Services.msc</codeph> to open the Services management console.</p></li>
        <li>Find the <codeph>CouchbaseServer</codeph> service and right-click.</li>
        <li>Select <uicontrol>Start</uicontrol> or <uicontrol>Stop</uicontrol> as appropriate.</li>
      </ol>
    </p>
      
   
    
    <note type="note">You can also alter the configuration so that the service is not automatically started during boot.</note>
    </section>
      
      <section><title>Via Windows system <codeph>net</codeph> command</title>
        
        <p>To start and stop Couchbase Server using <codeph>net</codeph>:</p>
        <codeblock>net start CouchbaseServer</codeblock>
        <codeblock>net stop CouchbaseServer</codeblock>

      </section>
      
      
      <section><title>Via Couchbase-supplied <codeph>.bat</codeph> scripts</title>
        
        <p>The Couchbase-supplied start and stop scripts are provided in the standard installation in the
        <codeph>bin</codeph> directory.</p>
        <p>To start and stop the server using these scripts:</p>
        
        <codeblock>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\service_start.bat</codeblock>
        <codeblock>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\service_stop.bat</codeblock>
      </section>
    
    
  </body>
</topic>
