<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="concept2798">
	<title>The Welcome Page</title>
	<conbody>
		<p>The first route we will implement is that of the welcome page, that is, the page that is
			displayed when someone goes to the root of your site. Because there is no Couchbase
			interaction involved, we just tell express to render the template.</p>
		
			
<codeblock outputclass="language-javascript" spectitle="beer_app.js (welcome page):">
function welcome(req, res) {
  res.render('welcome');
}
app.get('/welcome', welcome);
</codeblock>
			<p>The
				welcome.html template is actually a Jade template inside the views directory. It looks
				like this:</p>
		
			
<codeblock spectitle="views/welcome.jade:">
extends layout
block content
  .span6
    .span12
      h4 Browse all Beers
      a(href="/beers" class="btn btn-warning") Show me all beers
      hr
    .span12
      h4 Browse all Breweries
      a(href="/breweries" class="btn btn-info") Take me to the breweries
  .span6
    .span12
      h4 About this App
      p Welcome to Couchbase!
      p
        | This application helps you to get started on application
        | development with Couchbase. It shows how to create, update and
        | delete documents and how to work with JSON documents.
</codeblock>
			<p>The
				template simply provides some links to the brewery and beer pages (which are shown
				later).</p><p>An interesting thing about this template is that it “inherits” from the
				common layout.jade template. All pages in the beer app have a common header and footer
				to them — with only their body differing. This is the layout.jade
			template.</p>
		
		
			
<codeblock spectitle="views/layout.jade:">
!!!5
html(lang="en")
  head
    meta(charset="utf-8")
    title Couchbase Node.js Beer Sample
    meta(name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0")
    meta(name="description" content="The Couchbase Node.js Beer-Sample App")
    meta(name="author" content="Couchbase, Inc. 2013")

    link(href="/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet")
    link(href="/css/beersample.css" rel="stylesheet")
    link(href="/css/bootstrap-responsive.min.css" rel="stylesheet")

    //HTML5 shim, for IE6-8 support of HTML5 elements
    //if lt IE 9
      script(src="http://html5shim.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/html5.js")

  body
    .container-narrow
      .masthead
        ul.nav.nav-pills.pull-right
          li: a(href="/welcome") Home
          li: a(href="/beers") Beers
          li: a(href="/breweries") Breweries
        h2.muted Couchbase Beer Sample
      hr

      .row-fluid
        .span12
          block content
      hr

      .footer
        p &amp;copy; Couchbase, Inc. 2013

    script(src="/js/jquery.min.js")
    script(src="/js/beersample.js")
</codeblock>
		<p>The
				template simply provides some links to the brewery and beer pages (which are shown
				later).</p>
		<p>If you start your app now, you should be able to navigate to
				<filepath>http://localhost:1337/welcome</filepath> and see the welcome page. You’ll get a 404 error if you
				try to visit any links though - this is because we haven’t implemented them yet. Let’s
				do that now!</p>
	</conbody>
</concept>
