<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/concepts?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/Concepts/?><?path2project ../?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3500" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)    " class="- topic/topic " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="topic:1;4:40">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="title:1;5:10">TAP</title>
  <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;6:14">The TAP protocol is an internal part of the Couchbase Server system and is used to
    exchange data throughout the system. </shortdesc>
  <body class="- topic/body " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="body:1;8:9">
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:1;9:8">TAP provides a stream of data of the changes that are occurring within the system. TAP is
      used during replication, to copy data between vBuckets used for replicas. It is also used
      during the rebalance procedure to move data between vBuckets and redistribute the information
      across the system.</p>


    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="section:1;15:14"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="title:2;15:21">Client interface</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:2;15:48">Within Couchbase Server, the techniques and systems
        used to get information into and out of the database differ according to the level and
        volume of data that you want to access. The different methods can be identified according to
        the base operations of Create, Retrieve, Update and Delete:</p>
      
      <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="title:3;20:14">Create</title>

      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:3;22:10">Information is stored into the database using the memcached protocol interface to
        store a <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="i:1;23:20">value</i> against a specified <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="i:2;23:53">key</i>. Bulk operations for setting the
        key/value pairs of a large number of documents at the same time are available, and these are
        more efficient than multiple smaller requests.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:4;25:62">The value stored can be any binary
        value, including structured and unstructured strings, serialized objects (from the native
        client language), native binary data (for example, images or audio). For use with the
        Couchbase Server View engine, information must be stored using the JavaScript Object
        Notation (JSON) format, which structures information as a object with nested fields, arrays,
        and scalar datatypes.</p>
      
        <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="title:4;32:16">Retrieve</title>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:5;33:10">To retrieve information from the database, there are two methods available: By Key and BY View</p>
      
      <ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="ul:1;35:11">
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="li:1;36:13">By Key 
          <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:6;37:14">If you know the key used to store a particular value, then you can use the
  memcached protocol (or an appropriate memcached compatible client-library) to
  retrieve the value stored against a specific key. You can also perform bulk
  operations.</p></li>
        <li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="li:2;41:13">By View
          <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:7;42:14">f you do not know the key, you can use the View system to write a view that
            outputs the information you need. The view generates one or more rows of
            information for each JSON object stored in the database. The view definition
            includes the keys (used to select specific or ranges of information) and values.
            For example, you could create a view on contact information that outputs the
            JSON record by the contact's name, and with a value containing the contacts
            address. Each view also outputs the key used to store the original object. If 
            the view doesn't contain the information you need, you can use the returned key
            with the memcached protocol to obtain the complete record.</p>      
        </li>
      </ul>


        <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="title:5;55:16">Update</title>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:8;56:10">To update information in the database, you must use the memcached protocol interface.
        The memcached protocol includes functions to directly update the entire contents, and also
        to perform simple operations, such as appending information to the existing record, or
        incrementing and decrementing integer values.</p>
        
        
        <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="title:6;62:16">Delete</title>
      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:9;63:10">To delete information from Couchbase Server you need to use the memcached protocol
        which includes an explicit delete command to remove a key/value pair from the
        server.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="p:10;65:23">However, Couchbase Server also allows information to be stored in the database
        with an expiry value. The expiry value states when a key/value pair should be automatically
        deleted from the entire database, and can either be specified as a relative time (for
        example, in 60 seconds), or absolute time (31st December 2012, 12:00pm).</p>
        
        <note type="note" class="- topic/note " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concepts-TAP.dita" xtrc="note:1;70:27">The methods of creating, updating and retrieving information are critical 
          to the way you work with storing data in Couchbase Server.</note>
    
    </section>
  </body>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:24;30:48" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " mapclass="- map/topicref " type="topic" xtrc="topicref:6;11:47" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap" href="../Concepts/concept-intro.dita" role="parent"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Architecture and concepts</linktext><?ditaot genshortdesc?><desc class="- topic/desc "> Couchbase Server concepts include the differenct components and systems that make up     an individual Couchbase Server instance and a Couchbase cluster including information and     concepts needed to understand the fast and elastic nature, high availability, and high     performance of the Couchbase Server database.</desc></link></linkpool></related-links>
</topic>