<?workdir /Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/concepts?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/oxygen_dita_temp/Concepts/?><?path2project ../?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1284" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)    " class="- topic/topic " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="topic:1;4:40">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="title:1;5:10">Rebalancing</title>
  <shortdesc class="- topic/shortdesc " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="shortdesc:1;6:14">Rebalancing is the process of redistributing information across nodes</shortdesc>
  <body class="- topic/body " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="body:1;7:9">
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="p:1;8:8">Data is stored within Couchbase Server through the distribution method that is provided by the vBucket structure. 
      When a Couchbase Server cluster is expanded or shrunk, 
      the information stored in the vBuckets is redistributed between the available nodes and 
      the corresponding vBucket map is updated to reflect the new structure. 
      This process is called <i class="+ topic/ph hi-d/i " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="i:1;12:33">rebalancing</i>.</p>
    
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="p:2;14:8">Rebalancing is an deliberate process that you need to initiate manually when the structure of
      your cluster changes. The rebalance process changes the allocation of the vBuckets used to
      store the information and then physically moves the data between the nodes to match the new
      structure.</p>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="p:3;18:8">The rebalancing process can take place while the cluster is running and servicing requests.
      Clients using the cluster read and write to the existing structure with the data being moved
      in the background between nodes. Once the moving process has been completed, the vBucket map
      is updated and communicated to the smart clients and the proxy service (Moxi).</p>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Concepts/concept-rebalancing.dita" xtrc="p:4;22:8">The result is that the distribution of data across the cluster has been rebalanced, or
      smoothed out, so that the data is evenly distributed across the database. 
      Rebalancing takes into account the data and replicas of the data required to support the system.</p>
  </body>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:20;26:55" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap" ><link class="- topic/link " mapclass="- map/topicref " type="topic" xtrc="topicref:6;11:47" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap" href="../Concepts/concept-intro.dita" role="parent" ><linktext class="- topic/linktext " ><?ditaot gentext?>Architecture and concepts</linktext><?ditaot genshortdesc?><desc class="- topic/desc " > Couchbase Server concepts include the differenct components and systems that make up     an individual Couchbase Server instance and a Couchbase cluster including information and     concepts needed to understand the fast and elastic nature, high availability, and high     performance of the Couchbase Server database.</desc></link></linkpool></related-links>
</topic>