<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_e52_ynl_34">
	<title>Collecting diagnostics by using the cbcollect_info tool</title>
	<shortdesc>You can start, stop, and get collection status by using the cbcollect_info
		tool.</shortdesc>
	<conbody>
		<draft-comment author="amy">Is the syntax different for 3.0?</draft-comment>
		<draft-comment author="amy">Can you still output to a specific file if you are not doing the upload option?</draft-comment>

		<p>The cbcollect_info tool uses the following syntax:</p>

		<syntaxdiagram>
			<groupseq>
				<kwd>cbcollect_info</kwd>
				<groupcomp importance="optional">
					<kwd>OPTIONS</kwd>
				</groupcomp>
				<groupchoice importance="optional">
					<var>output-file</var>
				</groupchoice>
			</groupseq>
		</syntaxdiagram>

		<simpletable>
			<sthead>
				<stentry>Option</stentry>
				<stentry>Description</stentry>
			</sthead>
			<strow>
				<stentry>
					<p><option>--upload</option></p>
					<p><option>-u</option></p>
				</stentry>
				<stentry>Enable upload mode. When you use this option, you must also specify the
						<option>--upload-host</option> and <option>--customer</option> options, and you
					can optionally specify the <option>--ticket</option> option.</stentry>
			</strow>
			<strow>
				<stentry>
					--upload-host=hostname
					<p>-n hostname</p>
				</stentry>
				<stentry>Fully-qualified domain name of the host you want the logs uploaded to. The protocol prefix of the domain name, <codeph>https://</codeph>, is optional. It is the default only supported protocol. This option is required when you specify the <codeph>--upload</codeph> option.</stentry>
			</strow>
			<strow>
				<stentry>
					<p><option>--customer=customer-name</option></p>
					<p><option>-c customer-name</option></p>
				</stentry>
				<stentry>
					Customer name. This value is a string with a maximum length of 50 characters that contains only the following characters: [A-Za-z0-9_.-]. If any other characters are included in the string, the request will be rejected. This option is required when you specify the <codeph>--upload</codeph> option.
				</stentry>
			</strow>
			<strow>
				<stentry>
					<p><option>--ticket=ticket-number</option></p>
					<p><option>-t ticket-number</option></p>
				</stentry>
				<stentry>
					Couchbase support ticket number. This value is a string with a maximum length of 7 character that contains only digits 0-9. The ticket number is optional and is used only in conjunction with the --upload option.
				</stentry>
			</strow>
			<strow>
				<stentry><codeph>--script</codeph></stentry>
				<stentry>Send output to <codeph>stdout</codeph> in script mode format. Use this option when you invoke cbcollect_info programatically. </stentry>
			</strow>
		</simpletable>
		<p>
			If the <codeph>--upload</codeph> option is used, the collected logs are compressed into a zip file and uploaded to a URL that has the following form: <filepath>protocol://hostname/customer-name/ticket-number/filename.zip</filepath>.
		</p>
	</conbody>
</concept>
