<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1360"><title>Port numbers and accessing different buckets</title><body><p>In a Couchbase Server cluster, any communication (stats or data) to a port
<i>other</i> than 11210 will result in the request going through a Moxi process. This
means that any stats request will be aggregated across the cluster (and may
produce some inconsistencies or confusion when looking at stats that are not
“aggregatable”).</p><p>In general, it is best to run all your stat commands against port 11210 which
will always give you the information for the specific node that you are sending
the request to. It is a best practice to then aggregate the relevant data across
nodes at a higher level (in your own script or monitoring system).</p><p>When you run the below commands (and all stats commands) without supplying a
bucket name and/or password, they will return results for the default bucket and
produce an error if one does not exist.</p><p>To access a bucket other than the default, you will need to supply the bucket
name and/or password on the end of the command. Any bucket created on a
dedicated port does not require a password.</p><p>The TCP/IP port allocation on Windows by default includes a restricted number of
ports available for client communication. For more information on this issue,
including information on how to adjust the configuration and increase the
available ports, see <xref href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa560610(v=bts.20).aspx" scope="external" format="html">MSDN: Avoiding TCP/IP Port
Exhaustion</xref>.</p></body><related-links><linklist><title>Collected links</title><link href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa560610(v=bts.20).aspx" scope="external" format="html"><linktext>MSDN: Avoiding TCP/IP Port
Exhaustion</linktext></link></linklist></related-links></topic>