<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1303"><title>Changing disk cleanup interval</title><body><p>One of the most important use cases for the <codeph>cbepctl flush_param</codeph> is the set the
time interval for disk cleanup. Couchbase Server does
lazy expiration, that is, expired items are flagged as deleted rather than being
immediately erased. Couchbase Server has a maintenance process that will
periodically look through all information and erase expired items. This
maintenance process will run every 60 minutes, but it can be configured to run
at a different interval. For example, the following options will set the cleanup
process to run every 10 minutes:</p><codeblock><codeph>./cbepctl localhost:11210 -b bucket_name -p bucket_password set flush_param exp_pager_stime 600
</codeph></codeblock><p><b>Be aware that this tool is a per-node, per-bucket operation.</b> That means that
if you want to perform this operation, you must specify the IP address of a node
in the cluster and a named bucket. If you do not provided a named bucket, the
server will apply the setting to any default bucket that exists at the specified
node. If you want to perform this operation for an entire cluster, you will need
to perform the command for every node/bucket combination that exists for that
cluster.</p><p>Here we specify 600 seconds, or 10 minutes as the interval Couchbase Server
waits before it tries to remove expired items from disk.</p></body></topic>