<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3413">
	<title>Managing bucket flushes</title>
	<body>
		<p>By default, this setting appears in Couchbase Web Console and is disabled; when it is
			enabled Couchbase Server is able to flush all the data in a bucket. <b>Be also aware
				that this operation will be deprecated as a way to enable data bucket flushes.</b>
			This is because <b>cbepctl</b> is designed for individual node configuration not
			operating on data buckets shared by multiple nodes.</p>
		<p><b>The preferred way to enable data bucket flush is either 1) Couchbase Web Console or
				via 2) couchbase-cli</b>.</p>
				<note type="warning">Flushing a bucket is data destructive. If you use **cbepctl**, it makes no attempt to
			confirm or double check the request. Client applications using this are advised to
			double check with the end user before sending such a request. You can control and limit
			the ability to flush individual buckets by setting the `flushEnabled` parameter on a
			bucket in Couchbase Web Console or via `cbepctl flush_param`. </note>
		<p><b>Be aware that this tool is a per-node, per-bucket operation.</b> That means that if
			you want to perform this operation, you must specify the IP address of a node in the
			cluster and a named bucket. If you do not provided a named bucket, the server will apply
			the setting to any default bucket that exists at the specified node. If you want to
			perform this operation for an entire cluster, you will need to perform the command for
			every node/bucket combination that exists for that cluster.</p>
		<p>To enable flushing a data bucket:</p>
		<codeblock><codeph>&gt; ./cbepctl hostname:port -b bucket_name -p bucket_password set flush_param flushall_enabled true
</codeph></codeblock>
		<p>To disable flushing a data bucket:</p>
		<codeblock><codeph>&gt; ./cbepctl hostname:port -b bucket_name -p bucket_password set flush_param flushall_enabled false
</codeph></codeblock>
		<p>You can initiate the flush via the REST API.</p>
		
		
		<p>The complete list of options for <codeph>flush_param</codeph> are:</p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Parameter</entry>
						<entry>Description</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>alog_sleep_time</entry>
						<entry>Access scanner interval (minute)</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>alog_task_time</entry>
						<entry>Access scanner next task time (UTC)</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>bg_fetch_delay</entry>
						<entry>Delay before executing a bg fetch (test feature).</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>couch_response_timeout</entry>
						<entry>timeout in receiving a response from CouchDB.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>exp_pager_stime</entry>
						<entry>Expiry Pager interval. Time interval that Couchbase Server waits
							before it performs cleanup and removal of expired items from
							disk.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>flushall_enabled</entry>
						<entry>Enable flush operation. <b>To be deprecated. Use <codeph>couchbase-cli --enable-flush</codeph>.</b></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>pager_active_vb_pcnt</entry>
						<entry>Percentage of active vBuckets items among all ejected items by item pager.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>max_size</b></entry>
						<entry>Maximum memory used by the server.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>mem_high_wat</b></entry>
						<entry>Low water mark.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>mem_low_wat</b></entry>
						<entry>High water mark.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>mutation_mem_threshold</b></entry>
						<entry>Amount of RAM that can be consumed in that caching layer before
							clients start receiving temporary out of memory messages.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>timing_log</b></entry>
						<entry>Path to log detailed timing stats. </entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>warmup_min_memory_threshold</b></entry>
						<entry>Memory threshold (%) during warmup to enable traffic.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>warmup_min_item_threshold</b></entry>
						<entry>Item number threshold (%) during warmup to enable traffic.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>klog_compactor_queue_cap</b></entry>
						<entry>queue cap to throttle the log compactor.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>klog_max_log_size</b></entry>
						<entry>maximum size of a mutation log file allowed.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>klog_max_entry_ratio</b></entry>
						<entry>max ratio of # of items logged to # of unique items.</entry>
					</row>
					
					<row>
						<entry><b>pager_unbiased_period</b></entry>
						<entry>Period after last access scanner run during which item pager preserve
							working set.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>queue_age_cap</b></entry>
						<entry>Maximum queue age before flushing data.</entry>
					</row>
					
					<row>
						<entry><b>max_txn_size</b></entry>
						<entry>Maximum number of items in a flusher transaction.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>min_data_age</b></entry>
						<entry>Minimum data age before flushing data.</entry>
					</row>
					
					
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
	</body>
	<related-links>
		<linklist>
			<link href="../CBcli/cbcli-buckets.dita"/>
			<link href="../../rest/rest-bucket-flush.dita"/>
			<link href="../../UI/ui-data-buckets.dita"/>
			
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</topic>
