<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1360"><title>Changing setting for out of memory errors</title><body><p>By default, Couchbase Server will send clients a temporary out of memory error
if RAM is 95% consumed and only 5% RAM remains for overhead. We do not suggest
you change this default to a higher value; however you may choose to reduce this
value if you think you need more RAM available for system overhead such as disk
queue or for server data structures. To change this value:</p><codeblock><codeph>&gt;./cbepctl 10.5.2.31:11210 -b bucket_name -p bucket_password set flush_param mutation_mem_threshold 65
</codeph></codeblock><p><b>Be aware that this tool is a per-node, per-bucket operation.</b> That means that
if you want to perform this operation, you must specify the IP address of a node
in the cluster and a named bucket. If you do not provided a named bucket, the
server will apply the setting to any default bucket that exists at the specified
node. If you want to perform this operation for an entire cluster, you will need
to perform the command for every node/bucket combination that exists for that
cluster.</p><p>In this example we reduce the threshold to 65% of RAM. This setting must be
updated on a per-node, per-bucket basis, meaning you need to provide the
specific node and named bucket to update this setting. To update it for an
entire cluster, you will need to issue the command for every combination of node
and named bucket that exists in the cluster.</p></body></topic>