<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2724"><title>Views and indexes</title><body><p>Views within Couchbase Server process the information stored in your Couchbase
Server database, allowing you to index and query your data. A view creates an
index on the stored information according to the format and structure defined
within the view. The view consists of specific fields and information extracted
from the objects stored in Couchbase. Views create indexes on your information
allowing you to search and select information stored within Couchbase Server.</p><p>Views are eventually consistent compared to the underlying stored documents.
Documents are included in views when the document data is persisted to disk, and
documents with expiry times are removed from indexes only when the expiration
pager operates to remove the document from the database. For more information,
read <xref href="#topic2724/couchbase-views-operation">View Operation</xref>.</p><p>Views can be used within Couchbase Server for a number of reasons, including:</p><ul>
<li><p>Indexing and querying data from your stored objects</p></li>
<li><p>Producing lists of data on specific object types</p></li>
<li><p>Producing tables and lists of information based on your stored data</p></li>
<li><p>Extracting or filtering information from the database</p></li>
<li><p>Calculating, summarizing or reducing the information on a collection of stored
 data</p></li>
</ul><p>You can create multiple views and therefore multiple indexes and routes into the
information stored in your database. By exposing specific fields from the stored
information, views enable you to create and query the information stored within
your Couchbase Server, perform queries and selection on the information, and
paginate through the view output. The View Builder provides an interface for
creating your views within the Couchbase Server Web Console. Views can be
accessed using a suitable client library to retrieve matching records from the
Couchbase Server database.</p><ul>
<li><p>For background information on the creation of views and how they relate to the
 contents of your Couchbase Server database, see <xref href="#topic2724/couchbase-views-basics">View
 Basics</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>For more information on how views work with stored information, see <xref href="#topic2724/couchbase-views-datastore">Views and
 Stored Data</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>For information on the rules and implementation of views, see <xref href="#topic2724/couchbase-views-operation">View
 Operation</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>Two types of views, development and production, are used to help optimize
 performance and view development. See <xref href="#topic2724/couchbase-views-types">Development and Production
 Views</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>Writing views, including the language and options available are covered in
 <xref href="#topic2724/couchbase-views-types">Development and Production Views</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>For a detailed background and technical information on troubleshooting views,
 see <xref href="#topic2724/couchbase-views-troubleshooting">Troubleshooting Views (Technical
 Background)</xref>.</p></li>
<li><p>The Couchbase Server Web Console includes an editor for writing and developing
 new views. See <xref href="#topic2724/couchbase-views-editor">Using the Views Editor</xref>. You can also
 use a REST API to create, update and delete design documents. See the <xref href="../cb-rest-api/#couchbase-views-designdoc-api" format="html">REST API, Design
 Documents</xref>.</p></li>
</ul></body><related-links><linklist><title>Collected links</title><link href="../cb-rest-api/#couchbase-views-designdoc-api" format="html"><linktext>REST API, Design
 Documents</linktext></link></linklist></related-links></topic>