<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic5399">
	<title>Writing geospatial views</title>
	<body>
		<p>Geospatial support was introduced as an <i>experimental</i> feature in Couchbase Server.
			This feature is currently unsupported and is provided only for the purposes of
			demonstration and testing.</p>
		<p>GeoCouch adds two-dimensional spatial index support to Couchbase. Spatial support enables
			you to record geometry data into the bucket and then perform queries which return
			information based on whether the recorded geometries existing within a given
			two-dimensional range such as a bounding box. This can be used in spatial queries and in
			particular geolocationary queries where you want to find entries based on your location
			or region.</p>
		<p>The GeoCouch support is provided through updated index support and modifications to the
			view engine to provide advanced geospatial queries.</p>
		
		
		
		
		<section><title>Adding geometry data</title>
			<p>GeoCouch supports the storage of any geometry
				information using the GeoJSON specification. The format of the
				storage of the point data is arbitrary with the geometry type being supported during
				the view index generation.</p>
			<p>For example, you can use two-dimensional geometries
				for storing simple location data. You can add these to your Couchbase documents
				using any field name. The convention is to use a single field with two-element array
				with the point location, but you can also use two separate fields or compound
				structures as it is the view that compiles the information into the geospatial
				index.</p><p>For example, to populate a bucket with city location information, the
				document sent to the bucket could be formatted like that
				below:</p><codeblock><codeph>{
"loc" : [-122.270833, 37.804444],
"title" : "Oakland"
}
</codeph></codeblock>
			</section>
		
		
		
		<section><title>Views and queries</title><p>The GeoCouch extension uses the standard
				Couchbase indexing system to build a two-dimensional index from the point data
				within the bucket. The format of the index information is based on the GeoJSON specification.</p>
			<p>To create a geospatial index, use the
					<codeph>emit()</codeph> function to output a GeoJSON Point value containing the
				coordinates of the point you are describing. For example, the following function
				will create a geospatial index on the earlier spatial record
				example.</p><codeblock><codeph>function(doc, meta)
{
  if (doc.loc)
  {
     emit(
          {
             type: "Point",
             coordinates: doc.loc,
          },
          [meta.id, doc.loc]);
  }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
				key in the spatial view index can be any valid GeoJSON geometry value, including
				points, multipoints, linestrings, polygons and geometry collections.</p><p>The view
					<codeph>map()</codeph> function should be placed into a design document using
				the <codeph>spatial</codeph> prefix to indicate the nature of the view definition.
				For example, the following design document includes the above function as the view
					<codeph>points</codeph></p><codeblock><codeph>{
   "spatial" : {
      "points" : "function(doc, meta) { if (doc.loc) { emit({ type: \"Point\", coordinates: [doc.loc[0], doc.loc[1]]}, [meta.id, doc.loc]);}}",
   }
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>To
				execute the geospatial query you use the design document format using the embedded
				spatial indexing. For example, if the design document is called
					<codeph>main</codeph> within the bucket <codeph>places</codeph>, the URL will be
					<codeph>http://localhost:8092/places/_design/main/_spatial/points</codeph>.</p><p>Spatial
				queries include support for a number of additional arguments to the view request.
				The full list is provided in the following summary
				table.</p>
			
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Get Spatial Name</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry><b>Method</b></entry>
							<entry><codeph>GET
									/bucket/_design/design-doc/_spatial/spatial-name</codeph></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><b>Request Data</b></entry>
							<entry>None</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><b>Response Data</b></entry>
							<entry>JSON of the documents returned by the view</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><b>Authentication Required</b></entry>
							<entry>no</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><b>Query Arguments</b></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>bbox</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Specify the bounding box for a spatial query</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><b>Parameters</b> : string; optional</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>limit</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Limit the number of the returned documents to the specified
								number</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><b>Parameters</b> : numeric; optional</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>skip</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Skip this number of records before starting to return the
								results</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><b>Parameters</b> : numeric; optional</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry><codeph>stale</codeph></entry>
							<entry>Allow the results from a stale view to be used</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><b>Parameters</b> : string; optional</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><b>Supported Values</b></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><codeph>false</codeph> : Force update of the view index before
								results are returned</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><codeph>ok</codeph> : Allow stale views</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry/>
							<entry><codeph>update_after</codeph> : Allow stale view, update view
								after access </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table><p>Bounding Box Queries If you do not supply a bounding box, the full dataset is
				returned. When querying a spatial index you can use the bounding box to specify the
				boundaries of the query lookup on a given value. The specification should be in the
				form of a comma-separated list of the coordinates to use during the
				query.</p><p>These coordinates are specified using the GeoJSON format, so the first
				two numbers are the lower left coordinates, and the last two numbers are the upper
				right coordinates.</p><p>For example, using the above design
				document:</p><codeblock><codeph>GET http://localhost:8092/places/_design/main/_spatial/points?bbox=0,0,180,90
Content-Type: application/json
</codeph></codeblock><p>Returns
				the following
				information:</p><codeblock><codeph>{
   "update_seq" : 3,
   "rows" : [
      {
         "value" : [
            "oakland",
            [
               10.898333,
               48.371667
            ]
         ],
         "bbox" : [
            10.898333,
            48.371667,
            10.898333,
            48.371667
         ],
         "id" : "augsburg"
      }
   ]
}
</codeph></codeblock><note type="note">The return data includes the value specified in the design document view
				function, and the bounding box of each individual matching document. If the spatial
				index includes the <codeph>bbox</codeph> bounding box property as part of the
				specification, then this information will be output in place of the automatically
				calculated version.</note></section>
	</body>
	<related-links>
		<linklist><title>Related topics</title>
			<link href="http://geojson.org/geojson-spec.html" scope="external" format="html">
				<linktext>GeoJSON</linktext>
			</link>
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</topic>
