<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1647">
 <title>Administration basics</title>
 <body>
  <p>Administration is supported through three primary methods:</p>
  
  <section><title>Couchbase Web Console</title>
  <p>Couchbase includes a built-in web server and administration interface that provides access to
   the administration and statistic information for your cluster.</p>
  </section>
  
  <section><title>Command-line interface</title>
  <p>Provided within the Couchbase package are a number of command-line tools that allow you to
   communicate and control your Couchbase cluster.</p>
  </section>
  
   <section><title>REST API</title>

  <p>Couchbase Server includes a RESTful API that enables any tool capable of communicating over
   HTTP to administer and monitor a Couchbase cluster.</p>
   </section>
  
  <section><title>Best practices</title>
  <p>If you already have an application that uses the Memcached protocol then you can start using
   your Couchbase Server immediately. If so, you can simply point your application to this server
   like you would any other memcached server. No code changes or special libraries are needed, and
   the application will behave exactly as it would against a standard memcached server. Without the
   client knowing anything about it, the data is being replicated, persisted, and the cluster can be
   expanded or contracted completely transparently.</p>
  <p>If you do not already have an application, then you should investigate one of the available
   Couchbase client libraries to connect to your server and start storing and retrieving
   information.</p>
  </section>
  
 </body>
 <related-links>
  <linklist>

   <link href="../CLI/cli-overview.dita"></link>
   <link href="../REST/overview-rest-api.dita"></link>
   <link href="../concepts/bp-deployment-considerations.dita"></link>
    <link href="http://www.couchbase.com/develop" scope="external" format="html">
    <linktext>Couchbase SDKs</linktext>
   </link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
