<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1536"><title>General tips</title><body><p>The following are some general tips that may be useful before performing any
more detailed investigations:</p><ul>
<li><p>Try pinging the node.</p></li>
<li><p>Try connecting to the Couchbase Server Web Console on the node.</p></li>
<li><p><xref href="#topic1536/couchbase-network-ports">Try to use telnet to connect to the various ports</xref>
 that Couchbase Server uses.</p></li>
<li><p>Try reloading the web page.</p></li>
<li><p>Check firewall settings (if any) on the node. Make sure there isn’t a firewall
 between you and the node. On a Windows system, for example, the Windows firewall
 might be blocking the ports (Control Panel &gt; Windows Firewall).</p></li>
<li><p>Make sure that the documented ports are open between nodes and make sure the
 data operation ports are available to clients.</p></li>
<li><p>Check your browser’s security settings.</p></li>
<li><p>Check any other security software installed on your system, such as antivirus
 programs.</p></li>
<li><p>Generate a Diagnostic Report for use by Couchbase Technical Support to help
 determine what the problem is. There are two ways of collecting this
 information:</p>

<ul>
<li><p>Click <codeph>Generate Diagnostic Report</codeph> on the Log page to obtain a snapshot of your
 system’s configuration and log information for deeper analysis. You must send
 this file to Couchbase.</p></li>
<li><p>Run the <codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> on each node within your cluster. To run, you must
 specify the name of the file to be generated:</p></li>
</ul>

<p><codeph>
   &gt; cbcollect_info nodename.zip
</codeph></p>

<p>This will create a Zip file with the specified name. You must run each command
 individually on each node within the cluster. You can then send each file to
 Couchbase for analysis.</p>

<p>For more information, see the <xref href="../cb-cli/#couchbase-admin-cmdline-cbcollect_info" format="html">cbcollect_info
 tool</xref>.</p></li>
</ul></body><related-links><linklist><title>Collected links</title><link href="../cb-cli/#couchbase-admin-cmdline-cbcollect_info" format="html"><linktext>cbcollect_info
 tool</linktext></link></linklist></related-links></topic>