<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_hdg_nkd_54">
  <title>What's new in 3.0</title>
  <shortdesc>Couchbase Server 3.0 is a major release that provides significant enhancements to
    scalability, performance, availability and reliability, ease of administration, and
    security.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>The new major features in this release include:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Performance <ul>
        <li>Tunable memory with additional options for tuning memory utilization with large
          databases.</li>
        <li>Auto-tuning and shared thread pool for auto-configuration of resource allocation and
          for improved I/O throughput.</li>
        <li>Improved latency for durability operations (observe) such as <codeph>replicatTo</codeph> and <codeph>persistTo</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Lower latency indexing on views and faster view updates.</li>
      </ul></li>
      <li>Availability and reliability <ul>
        <li>Lower latency XDCR with memory to memory replication.</li>
        <li>Delta node recovery for fast recovery of a failed node.</li>
        <li>High performance rebalance operation.</li>
        <li>Incremental backups.</li>
      </ul></li>
      <li>Ease of administration <ul>
        <li>Ability to pause and resume with XDCR replication for improved efficiency during maintenance.</li>
        <li>Improved resource governance with bucket priorities.</li>
        <li>Graceful failover for failovers without data loss.</li>
        <li>Cluster-wide diagnostics for simplified troubleshooting and debugging.</li>
      </ul></li>
      <li>Security <ul>
        <li>Encryption for data access and query access.</li>
        <li>Encryption for administrator access via the web console, CLI, and REST API.</li>
      </ul></li>
    </ul>
    
    <section><title>New features</title>
    
    <ul>
      <li>Infrastructure enhancements including: 
        <ul>
          <li><xref href="Concepts/dcp.dita">Database Change
            Protocol (DCP)</xref></li>
          <li><xref href="Concepts/global-thread-pool.dita"/>
            <p>For information about DCP
            statistics, see <xref href="UI/ui-dcp-queues.dita"></xref> via the web console and <xref href="CLI/cli-cbstats-dcp.dita"></xref> via the CLI.</p></li>
        </ul></li>
      <li>Bucket and disk I/O enhancements including: <ul>
            <li><xref href="Concepts/bucket-eviction.dita">Bucket metadata ejections</xref>
              <p>For information about bucket metadata ejections, see <xref
                href="UI/ui-task-bucket-metadata-ejection.dita"/> via the web console, 
                <xref href="CLI/CBcli/cbcli-bucket-metadata-ejection.dita"/> via the CLI, and 
                <xref href="REST/rest-bucket-metadata-ejection.dita"/> via the REST API.</p></li>
            <li><xref href="Concepts/bucket-priority.dita">Disk I/O priority</xref>
              <p>For information about changing disk I/P priority, see <xref
                  href="UI/ui-task-set-bucket-priority.dita"/> via the web console, <xref
                  href="CLI/cli-set-disk-priority.dita"/> via the CLI, and <xref
                  href="REST/rest-bucket-set-priority.dita"/> via the REST API.</p></li>
          </ul></li>
      <li>Server maintenance enhancements including: <ul>
            <li><xref href="Concepts/graceful-failover.dita"/>
              <p>For information about graceful failover, see <xref
                href="UI/ui-task-failover-graceful.dita"/> via the web console, <xref
                  href="CLI/cli-failover-graceful.dita"/> via the CLI, and <xref
                    href="REST/rest-failover-graceful.dita"/> via the REST API.</p></li>
            <li><xref href="Concepts/delta-node-recovery.dita"/>
              <p>For information about using delta
              node recovery, see <xref
                href="UI/ui-task-node-recovery-incremental.dita"/> via the web console, <xref
                  href="CLI/cli-node-recovery-incremental.dita"/> via the CLI, and <xref
                    href="REST/rest-node-recovery-incremental.dita"/> via the REST API.</p></li>
            <li><xref href="Tasks/tasks-backup-restore-incremental.dita"/>
              <p>For information about
              using incremental backup and restore via the CLI, see <xref
                href="CLI/cli-increment-backup.dita"/> and <xref
                  href="CLI/cli-incremental-restore.dita"/>.</p></li>
          </ul></li>
      <li>Views enhancement with <xref href="Views/views-index-updates.dita"/>.</li>
      <li>XDCR enhancements including <xref href="XDCR/xdcr-memory-replication.dita"/> and <xref
            href="XDCR/xdcr-pause-resume.dita"/>
          <p>For information about pausing and resuming XDCR replication, 
            see <xref href="UI/ui-xdcr-pause-resume.dita"/> via the web console, <xref
              href="CLI/cli-xdcr-pause-resume.dita"/>  via the CLI, and <xref
                href="REST/rest-xdcr-pause-resume.dita"/> via the REST API.</p></li>
      <li>Security enhancement including <xref href="Misc/security-admin-access.dita"/> and <xref
            href="Misc/security-client-ssl.dita"/>.</li>
      <li>Log and log collection improvements with <xref href="Misc/cluster-wide-info-intro.dita"/>
      <p>For more information about collecting diagnostics, see <xref
        href="UI/ui-cluster-wide-info.dita"/> via the web console, <xref
          href="CLI/CBcli/cbcli-cluster-wide-info.dita"/> via the CLI, and <xref
              href="CLI/cbcollect-cluster-wide-info.dita"/> via the CLI.
        <!-- <xref href="REST/rest-cluster-wide-info.dita" ></xref> --></p>
        </li>
        </ul>

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Enterprise Edition only</title>
      <p>The following features are only available with Couchbase Server 3.0 Enterprise Edition:</p>
      
      <ul>
        <li>Incremental backup</li>
        <li>Incremental restore</li>
        <li>Encrypted admin access</li>
        <li>Encrypted data access</li>
      </ul>
    
    </section>
    
    
  </body>
</topic>
