<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="collect-info-web">
	<title>Viewing and collecting diagnostics</title>
	<shortdesc>The web console provides a graphical interface for collecting and sending system diagnostics to the Couchbase support team.</shortdesc>

	<task id="task_s1v_z3w_h4">
		<title>Collecting and uploading log information</title>
		<shortdesc>Collecting and uploading logs from your nodes by using the web console</shortdesc>

		<taskbody>
			
			<steps>
				<step>
					<cmd>Click <uicontrol>Collect Information</uicontrol>.</cmd>
				</step>
				<step>
					<cmd>In the <wintitle>Collect Information</wintitle> window, select the nodes you
						want to report on.</cmd>
					<info>
						<p>You can choose to report on all accessible nodes or select one or more specific
							accessible nodes. You can collect information only from accessible nodes.
								<term>Accessible nodes</term> are nodes that are in the Up or Pending state.
							You cannot select nodes in the Down state because they cannot respond to
							cluster messages.</p>
					</info>
					<choicetable>
						<chrow>
							<choption><uicontrol>All accessible nodes</uicontrol></choption>
							<chdesc>Collects logs for all accessible nodes in the cluster. </chdesc>
						</chrow>
						<chrow>
							<choption><uicontrol>Selected nodes</uicontrol></choption>
							<chdesc>Collects logs for a subset of the nodes in the cluster.</chdesc>
						</chrow>
					</choicetable>
				</step>
				<step>
					<cmd>If you want to send the report to Couchbase, select the <uicontrol>Upload to
							Couchbase</uicontrol> check box and fill in the additional
						fields.</cmd>
					<info>
						<p>The <uicontrol>Upload to Couchbase</uicontrol> check box is selected by default. The additional fields are:</p>
						<ul>
							<li><uicontrol>Upload to host</uicontrol>—enter the name of the host that you
								want the logs uploaded to. The host name can be either your own server or a
								specific server to which Couchbase support asked you to upload the
								files.</li>
							<li><uicontrol>Customer name</uicontrol>—enter the name of your company. This
								field is used to create file names for the logs and the URL that the files
								are uploaded to.</li>
							<li><uicontrol>Ticket number</uicontrol>—enter the Couchbase support ticket
								number associated with the request for logs. This field is optional, but if
								specified it is used as a path component of the URL that the files are
								uploaded to.</li>
						</ul>
					</info>
				</step>
				<step>
					<cmd>Click <uicontrol>Collect</uicontrol>.</cmd>
					<info>
						<p>The <wintitle>Collect Results</wintitle> window appears and begins to display
						the status of the collection process. The status display continues to update until
						the collection process is complete. The current status of each node is displayed.
						The node statuses are:</p> 
						<ul>
							<li><uicontrol>Pending</uicontrol>—collection hasn’t started on the node.</li>
							<li><uicontrol>Collection in progress</uicontrol>—collection is currently
								running on the node.</li>
							<li><uicontrol>Collected</uicontrol>—collection is complete. This status is
								displayed only if the logs will not be uploaded to a server.</li>
							<li><uicontrol>Uploaded</uicontrol>—collection is complete and the logs have
								been uploaded to a server.</li>
							<li><uicontrol>Failed to collect</uicontrol>—collection was unsuccessful. When
								available, additional information about the failure is shown in the Details
								column.</li>
							<li><uicontrol>Collected, failed to upload</uicontrol>—collection was
								successful, but the logs could not be uploaded. When available, additional
								information about the failure is shown in the Details column.</li>
							<li><uicontrol>Cancelled</uicontrol>—the user canceled collection for this
								node.</li>
						</ul>
					</info>
				</step>
				<step>
					<cmd>View the results.</cmd>
					<info>
						<p>After the collection process finishes, the <wintitle>Collection
								Results</wintitle> window contains a summary of the collection process
							result. The summary contains the following lists:</p>
						<ul>
							<li>Logs that were successfully uploaded. The list includes the destination URL
								for each log file. If you didn't choose to upload the files to Couchbase,
								you can use this information to locate the files and upload them
								manually.</li>
							<li>Logs that were collected but couldn't be uploaded. The list includes the
								node and path for each log file that couldn't be uploaded.</li>
							<li>Nodes that could not be collected from.</li>
						</ul>
					</info>
				</step>

			</steps>
		</taskbody>
	</task>

	<task id="cancel-collection">
		<title>Canceling information collection</title>
		<taskbody>
			<context>You can cancel the collection process at any time before it finishes. </context>
			<steps>
				<step>
					<cmd>In the <wintitle>Collect results</wintitle> window, click
							<uicontrol>Cancel</uicontrol>.</cmd>
				</step>
				<step>
					<cmd>Verify whether you want to cancel the collection process.</cmd>
				</step>
			</steps>
		</taskbody>
	</task>

	<task id="hide-collect">
		<title>Hiding the collection results window</title>
		<taskbody>
			<context>You can hide the <wintitle>Collection results</wintitle> window before the
				collection process finishes by clicking the <uicontrol>Close</uicontrol> button in the
				window title bar. You will receive a notification when the collection process
				finishes.</context>
		</taskbody>
	</task>

	<task id="show-collect">
		<title>Showing the collection results window</title>
		<taskbody>
			<context>If you closed the <wintitle>Collection results</wintitle> window before the
				collection process finished, you can bring it back up to review the results.</context>
			<steps>
				<step>
					<cmd>Select the <uicontrol>Logs</uicontrol> tab.</cmd>
				</step>
				<step>
					<cmd>Click <uicontrol>View Log Collect Status</uicontrol>.</cmd>
				</step>
			</steps>
		</taskbody>
	</task>

</task>
