<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3281"><title>Logs REST API</title><body><p>This section provides the REST API endpoints for retrieving log and diagnostic information as well as how an SDK can add entries into a log.</p><table><tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><colspec colname="col3"/><thead><row>
	<entry>HTTP method</entry>
	<entry>URI path</entry>
	<entry>Description</entry>
</row></thead><tbody><row>
	<entry>GET</entry>
	<entry><codeph>/diag</codeph></entry>
	<entry>Retrieves log and additional server diagnostic information.</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>GET</entry>
	<entry><codeph>/sasl_logs</codeph></entry>
	<entry>Retrieves log information.</entry>
</row></tbody></tgroup></table><section><title>Retrieving log information</title><p>Couchbase Server logs various messages, which are available via the REST API.
These log messages are optionally categorized by the module. A generic list of log entries or log entries for a particular category can be retrieved. </p><p>Note</p><p>If the system is secured, administrator credentials are required to access logs.
</p><p>To retrieve log and server diagnostic information, perform a GET with the <codeph>/diag</codeph> endpoint.</p><codeblock><codeph>curl -v -X GET -u Administrator:password
   http://127.0.0.1:8091/diag
</codeph></codeblock><p>To retrieve a generic list of logs, perform a GET with the <codeph>/sasl_logs</codeph> endpoint.</p><codeblock><codeph>curl -v -X GET -u Administrator:password 
  http://127.0.0.1:8091/sasl_logs
</codeph></codeblock><p>To retrieve a specific log file, perform a GET on the <codeph>sasl_logs</codeph> endpoint and provide a specific log category.</p><codeblock><codeph>curl -v -X GET -u Administrator:password
 http://127.0.0.1:8091/sasl_logs/&lt;logName&gt;
</codeph></codeblock><p>Where the <i>logName</i> is one of the following log types:</p><ul>
<li>babysitter</li>
<li>couchdb</li>
<li>debug</li>
<li>error</li>
<li>info</li>
<li>mapreduce_errors</li>
<li>ssl_proxy</li>
<li>stats</li>
<li>view</li>
<li>xdcr</li>
<li>xdcr_errors</li>
</ul><p><b>Example</b></p><codeblock><codeph>curl -v -X GET -u Administrator:password
 http://127.0.0.1:8091/sasl_logs/ssl_proxy
</codeph></codeblock><p><b>Results</b></p><codeblock><codeph>* About to connect() to 10.5.2.118 port 8091 (#0)
*   Trying 10.5.2.118... connected
* Connected to 10.5.2.118 (10.5.2.118) port 8091 (#0)
* Server auth using Basic with user 'Administrator'
&gt; GET /sasl_logs/ssl_proxy HTTP/1.1
&gt; Authorization: Basic QWRtaW5pc3RyYXRvcjpwYXNzd29yZA==
&gt; User-Agent: curl/7.21.4 (x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu) libcurl/7.21.4 OpenSSL/0.9.8b zlib/1.2.3
&gt; Host: 10.5.2.118:8091
&gt; Accept: */*
&gt; 
&lt; HTTP/1.1 200 OK
&lt; Transfer-Encoding: chunked
&lt; Server: Couchbase Server
&lt; Pragma: no-cache
&lt; Date: Thu, 06 Feb 2014 22:50:12 GMT
&lt; Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
&lt; Cache-Control: no-cache
&lt; 
logs_node (ssl_proxy):
-------------------------------
[ns_server:info,2014-01-24T11:25:18.066,nonode@nohost:&lt;0.30.0&gt;:ns_ssl_proxy:init_logging:84]Brought up ns_ssl_proxy logging
[error_logger:info,2014-01-24T11:25:18.082,nonode@nohost:error_logger&lt;0.5.0&gt;:ale_error_logger_handler:log_report:72]
=========================PROGRESS REPORT=========================
          supervisor: {local,ns_ssl_proxy_sup}
             started: [{pid,&lt;0.64.0&gt;},
                       {name,ns_ssl_proxy_server_sup},
                       {mfargs,{ns_ssl_proxy_server_sup,start_link,[]}},
                       {restart_type,permanent},
                       {shutdown,infinity},
                       {child_type,supervisor}]
</codeph></codeblock></section>
  


</body></topic>
