<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1311">
	<title>Deleting buckets</title>
	<shortdesc>To delete buckets, use the <codeph>DELETE</codeph> operation with the
			<codeph>/pools/default/buckets/default</codeph> URI. </shortdesc>
	
	<body>

		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Method</b></entry>
						<entry><codeph>DELETE /pools/default/buckets/bucket_name</codeph></entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Request Data</b></entry>
						<entry>None</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Response Data</b></entry>
						<entry>None</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Authentication Required</b></entry>
						<entry>yes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry/>
						<entry><b>Return Codes</b></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>200</entry>
						<entry>OK Bucket Deleted on all nodes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>401</entry>
						<entry>Unauthorized</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>404</entry>
						<entry>Object Not Found</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>500</entry>
						<entry>Bucket could not be deleted on all nodes</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>503</entry>
						<entry>Buckets cannot be deleted during a rebalance</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		
		<note type="warning"> This operation is data destructive.The service makes no attempt to double check with the
			user. It simply moves forward. Clients applications using this are advised to double
			check with the end user before sending such a request. </note>
		
		<codeblock>
DELETE /pools/default/buckets/default
Host: localhost:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
</codeblock>
		<p>Bucket deletion is a synchronous operation but because the cluster may include a number
			of nodes, they may not all be able to delete the bucket. If all the nodes delete the
			bucket within the standard timeout of 30 seconds, <codeph>200</codeph> will be returned.
			If the bucket cannot be deleted on all nodes within the 30 second timeout, a
				<codeph>500</codeph> is returned.</p>
		<p>Further requests to delete the bucket will return a <codeph>404</codeph> error. Creating
			a new bucket with the same name may return an error that the bucket is still being
			deleted.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
