<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1853">
  <title>Getting a destination cluster reference</title>
  <body>
    <p>When you use XDCR, you establish <i>source</i> and <i>destination</i> cluster. A source
      cluster is the cluster from which you want to copy data; a destination cluster is the cluster
      where you want the replica data to be stored. To get information about a destination
      cluster:</p>
    <codeblock><codeph>curl -u admin:password 
    http://localhost:8091/pools/default/remoteClusters
</codeph></codeblock>
    <p>Replace the <i>admin</i>, <i>password</i>, and <i>localhost</i> values in the above example
      with your actual values.</p>
    <p>You provide credentials for the cluster and also the hostname and port for the remote
      cluster. This generates a request similar to the following sample:</p>
    <codeblock><codeph>GET /pools/default/remoteClusters HTTP/1.1
Authorization: Basic QWRtaW5pc3RyYXRvcjpwYXNzd29yZA==
User-Agent: curl/7.21.4 (universal-apple-darwin11.0) libcurl/7.21.4 OpenSSL/0.9.8r zlib/1.2.5
Host: 10.4.2.4:8091
Accept: */*
</codeph></codeblock>
    <p>If successful, Couchbase Server responds with a JSON response similar to the following:</p>
    <codeblock><codeph>[{
"name":"remote1",
"uri":"/pools/default/remoteClusters/remote1",
"validateURI":"/pools/default/remoteClusters/remote1?just_validate=1",
"hostname":"10.4.2.6:8091",
"username":"Administrator",
"uuid":"9eee38236f3bf28406920213d93981a3",
"deleted":false
}]
</codeph></codeblock>
    <p>The following describes the response elements:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><p>(String) name: Name of the destination cluster referenced for XDCR.</p></li>
      <li><p>(String) uri: URI for destination cluster information.</p></li>
      <li><p>(String) validateURI: URI to validate details of cluster reference.</p></li>
      <li><p>(String) hostname: Hostname/IP (and :port) of the remote cluster.</p></li>
      <li><p>(String) uuid: UUID of the remote cluster reference.</p></li>
      <li><p>(String) username: Username for the destination cluster administrator.</p></li>
      <li><p>(Boolean) deleted: Indicates whether the reference to the destination cluster has been
          deleted or not.</p></li>
    </ul>
    
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../Tasks/xdcr-configure-replications.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
