<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1555"><title>Managing internal cluster settings</title><body><p>You can set a number of internal settings the number of maximum number of
supported buckets supported by the cluster. To get the current setting of the
number of parallel indexers, use a <codeph>GET</codeph> request.</p><p><!--Removed anchor point table-couchbase-admin-restapi-settings-maxbucketcount-get--></p><table><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row>
	<entry>Get Internal Settings</entry>
	<entry>Description</entry>
</row></thead><tbody><row>
	<entry><b>Method</b></entry>
	<entry><codeph>GET /internalSettings</codeph></entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Request Data</b></entry>
	<entry>None</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Response Data</b></entry>
	<entry>JSON of current internal settings</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Authentication Required</b></entry>
	<entry>no</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Return Codes</b></entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>200</entry>
	<entry>Settings returned </entry>
</row></tbody></tgroup></table><p>For example:</p><codeblock><codeph>GET http://127.0.0.1:8091/internalSettings
</codeph></codeblock><p>This returns a JSON structure of the current settings:</p><codeblock><codeph>{
  "indexAwareRebalanceDisabled":false,
  "rebalanceIndexWaitingDisabled":false,
  "rebalanceIndexPausingDisabled":false,
  "maxParallelIndexers":4,
  "maxParallelReplicaIndexers":2,
  "maxBucketCount":20
}
</codeph></codeblock><p>To set a configuration value, <codeph>POST</codeph> to the URL a payload containing the updated
values.</p><p><!--Removed anchor point table-couchbase-admin-restapi-settings-maxparallelindexers--></p><table><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row>
	<entry>Set Configuration Value</entry>
	<entry>Description</entry>
</row></thead><tbody><row>
	<entry><b>Method</b></entry>
	<entry><codeph>POST /settings/maxParallelIndexers</codeph></entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Request Data</b></entry>
	<entry>None</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Response Data</b></entry>
	<entry>JSON of the global and node-specific parallel indexer configuration</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Authentication Required</b></entry>
	<entry>yes</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Payload Arguments</b></entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><codeph>globalValue</codeph></entry>
	<entry>Required parameter. Numeric. Sets the global number of parallel indexers. Minimum of 1, maximum 1024.</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Return Codes</b></entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>400</entry>
	<entry>globalValue not specified or invalid </entry>
</row></tbody></tgroup></table><p>For example, to update the maximum number of buckets:</p><codeblock><codeph>curl -v -X POST http://admin:password@localhost:8091/internalSettings \
-d maxBucketCount=20
</codeph></codeblock><p>Replace the <i>admin</i>, <i>password</i>, <i>localhost</i>, and <i>20</i> values in the above
example with your actual values.</p></body></topic>