<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_dgw_x1b_k4">
  <title>Setting disk I/O priority</title>
  <shortdesc>The disk I/O priority for a bucket is set with the
      <codeph>/pools/default/buckets/bucket_name</codeph> URI and the <codeph>threadNumber</codeph>
    setting.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Disk I/O priority</title>
      <p>To set the maximum of thread workers, use the <codeph>threadsNumber</codeph> option. To
        specify high priority, assign eight (8) threads. To specify low priority, assign three (3)
        threads.</p>
      <p>Bucket REST API method and URI paths include:</p>
      
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="3">
          <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
          <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.2*"/>
          <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="4.14*"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>HTTP method</entry>
              <entry>URI path</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry>/pools/default/buckets</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves all bucket and bucket operations information from a cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry>/pools/default/buckets/default</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves information for a single bucket associated with a cluser.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>GET</entry>
              <entry>/pools/default/buckets/bucket_name/stats</entry>
              <entry>Retrieves bucket statistics for a specific bucket.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry>/pools/default/buckets</entry>
              <entry>Creates a new Couchbase bucket.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>DELETE</entry>
              <entry>/pools/default/buckets/bucket_name</entry>
              <entry>Deletes a specific bucket.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POST</entry>
              <entry>/pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush</entry>
              <entry>Flushes a specific bucket.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p/>
      <note type="important"> When editing bucket properties, be sure to specify all bucket properties.
        If a bucket property is not specified (whether or not you are changing the existing value),
        Couchbase Server may reset the property to the default. Even if you do not intend to change a
        certain property, re-specify the existing value to avoid this behavior.</note>
      
      <p>The following example sets the <codeph>threadsNumber</codeph> for the default bucket to
        eight (8), which is high priority, from the default of three (3), which is low priority.</p>
      <codeblock>
curl -v -X POST -u Administrator:password \
  http://10.5.2.54:8091/pools/default/buckets/default \
  -d threadsNumber=8        
  </codeblock>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
