<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2065"><title>Limiting simultaneous node requests</title><body><p>You can use the <codeph>/internalSettings</codeph> endpoint to limit the
number of simultaneous requests each node can accept. In earlier releases, too
many simultaneous views requests resulted in a node being overwhelmed. For
general information about this endpoint, see <xref href="#topic2065/couchbase-admin-restapi-settings-max_bucket_count">Managing Internal Cluster
Settings</xref>.</p><p> When Couchbase Server rejects an incoming connection because one of these
limits is exceeded, it responds with an HTTP status code of 503. The HTTP
Retry-After header will be set appropriately. If the request is made to a REST
port, the response body will provide the reason why the request was rejected. If
the request is made on a CAPI port, such as a views request, the server will
respond with a JSON object with a “error” and “reason” fields.</p><p>For example, to change this limit for the port used for views:</p><codeblock><codeph>curl -X POST -u admin:password http://localhost:8091/internalSettings -d 'capiRequestLimit=50'
</codeph></codeblock><p>Replace the <i>admin</i>, <i>password</i>, <i>localhost</i>, and <i>50</i> values in the above
example with your actual values.</p><p>Will limit the number of simultaneous views requests and internal XDCR requests
which can be made on a port. The following are all the port-related request
parameters you can set:</p><ul>
<li><p><b>restRequestLimit</b> : Maximum number of simultaneous connections each node
 should accept on a REST port. Diagnostic-related requests and 
 <codeph>/internalSettings</codeph> requests are not counted in this limit.</p></li>
<li><p><b>capiRequestLimit</b> : Maximum number of simultaneous connections each node
 should accept on CAPI port. This port is used for XDCR and views connections.</p></li>
<li><p><b>dropRequestMemoryThresholdMiB</b> : In MB. The amount of memory used by Erlang
 VM that should not be exceeded. If the amount is exceeded the server will start
 dropping incoming connections.</p></li>
</ul><p>By default these settings do not have any limit set. We recommend you leave this
settings at the default setting unless you experience issues with too many
requests impacting a node. If you set these thresholds too low, too many
requests will be rejected by the server, including requests from Couchbase Web
Console.</p></body></topic>