<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2365">
  <title>Flushing buckets</title>
  <shortdesc>To flush all buckets, use the <codeph>POST</codeph> operation with the <codeph>/pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush</codeph> URI.</shortdesc>
  
  <body>
    
    <p>The <codeph>doFlush</codeph> operation empties the contents of the specified bucket, deleting
      all stored data. The operation only succeeds if flush is enabled on configured bucket. The
      format of the request is the URL of the REST endpoint using the <codeph>POST</codeph> HTTP
      operation:</p>
    
    <note type="warning">This operation is data destructive. The service makes no attempt to confirm or double check
      the request. Client applications using this are advised to double check with the end user
      before sending such a request. You can control and limit the ability to flush individual
      buckets by setting the `flushEnabled` parameter on a bucket in Couchbase Web Console or via
      `cbepctl flush_param`. </note>


    <codeblock>http://localhost:8091/pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush
</codeblock>
    <p>For example, using <codeph>curl</codeph> :</p>
    <codeblock>
curl -X POST 'http://admin:password@localhost:8091/pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush'
  </codeblock>
    <p>Replace the <i>admin</i>, <i>password</i>, and <i>localhost</i> values in the above example
      with your actual values.</p>
    <p>Equivalent HTTP protocol request:</p>
    
    <codeblock>POST /pools/default/buckets/default/controller/doFlush
Host: localhost:8091
Authorization: Basic xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
    </codeblock>
    <p>Parameters and payload data are ignored, but the request must including the authorization
      header if the system has been secured.</p>
    <p>If flushing is disable for the specified bucket, a 400 response will be returned with the
      bucket status:</p>
    
    <codeblock>{"_":"Flush is disabled for the bucket"}</codeblock>
    <p>If the flush is successful, the HTTP response code is <codeph>200</codeph> :</p>
    
    <codeblock>HTTP/1.1 200 OK</codeblock>

    <note type="important"> The flush request may lead to significant disk activity as the data in the bucket is deleted
      from the database. The high disk utilization may affect the performance of your server until
      the data has been successfully deleted. </note>
    
    <note type="note">The flush request is not transmitted over XDCR replication configurations; the remote bucket
      will not be flushed. </note>
    <p>Couchbase Server returns a HTTP 404 response if the URI is invalid or if it does not
      correspond to an active bucket in the system.</p>
    <codeblock>404 Not Found
</codeblock>

  </body>
</topic>
