<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1678">
  <title>Disabling consistent query results on rebalance</title>
  <body>
    <p>If you perform queries during rebalance, this new feature will ensure that you receive the
      query results that you would expect from a node as if it is not being rebalanced. During node
      rebalance, you will get the same results you would get as if the data were on an original node
      and as if data were not being moved from one node to another. In other words, this new feature
      ensures you get query results from a new node during rebalance that are consistent with the
      query results you would have received from the node before rebalance started.</p>
    <p>By default this functionality is enabled; although it is possible to disable this
      functionality via the REST API, under certain circumstances described below.</p>
    
    <note type="note">Be aware that rebalance may take significantly more time if you have implemented views for
      indexing and querying. While this functionality is enabled by default, if rebalance time
      becomes a critical factor for your application, you can disable this feature via the REST
      API.</note>
    <p>We do not recommend you disable this functionality for applications in production without
      thorough testing. To do so may lead to unpredictable query results during rebalance. </p>
    <p>To disable this feature, provide a request similar to the following:</p>
    <codeblock><codeph>curl -v -u admin:password -X POST http://localhost:8091/internalSettings \
-d indexAwareRebalanceDisabled=true
</codeph></codeblock>
    <p>Replace the <i>admin</i>, <i>password</i>, and <i>localhost</i> values in the above example
      with your actual values.</p>
    <p>If successful Couchbase Server will send a response:</p>
    <codeblock><codeph>HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
</codeph></codeblock>
    <p>For more information about views and how they function within a cluster.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../Views/views-operation.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
