---
title: "Appendix: Licenses"
ng: true
---

# Appendix: Licenses

This documentation and associated software is subject to the following licenses.

<a id="license-documentation"></a>

## Documentation License

This documentation in any form, software or printed matter, contains proprietary
information that is the exclusive property of Couchbase. Your access to and use
of this material is subject to the terms and conditions of your Couchbase
Software License and Service Agreement, which has been executed and with which
you agree to comply. This document and information contained herein may not be
disclosed, copied, reproduced, or distributed to anyone outside Couchbase
without prior written consent of Couchbase or as specifically provided below.
This document is not part of your license agreement nor can it be incorporated
into any contractual agreement with Couchbase or its subsidiaries or affiliates.

Use of this documentation is subject to the following terms:

You may create a printed copy of this documentation solely for your own personal
use. Conversion to other formats is allowed as long as the actual content is not
altered or edited in any way. You shall not publish or distribute this
documentation in any form or on any media, except if you distribute the
documentation in a manner similar to how Couchbase disseminates it (that is,
electronically for download on a Web site with the software) or on a CD-ROM or
similar medium, provided however that the documentation is disseminated together
with the software on the same medium. Any other use, such as any dissemination
of printed copies or use of this documentation, in whole or in part, in another
publication, requires the prior written consent from an authorized
representative of Couchbase. Couchbase and/or its affiliates reserve any and all
rights to this documentation not expressly granted above.

This documentation may provide access to or information on content, products,
and services from third parties. Couchbase Inc. and its affiliates are not
responsible for and expressly disclaim all warranties of any kind with respect
to third-party content, products, and services. Couchbase Inc. and its
affiliates will not be responsible for any loss, costs, or damages incurred due
to your access to or use of third-party content, products, or services.

The information contained herein is subject to change without notice and is not
warranted to be error free. If you find any errors, please report them to us in
writing.
