<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/ag3/Views?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/ag3/Views/?><?path2project ../?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2490" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)    " class="- topic/topic " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="topic:1;4:40"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="title:1;4:47">Development views</title><body class="- topic/body " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="body:1;4:78"><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="p:1;4:81">Due to the nature of the Couchbase cluster and because of the size of the
datasets that can be stored across a cluster, the impact of view development
needs to be controlled. Creating a view implies the creation of the index which
could slow down the performance of your server while the index is being
generated. However, views also need to be built and developed using the actively
stored information.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="p:2;9:27">To support both the creation and testing of views, and the deployment of views
in production, Couchbase Server supports two different view
types,Developmentviews andProductionviews. The two view types work identically,
but have different purposes and restrictions placed upon their operation.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="p:3;12:81">Development views are designed to be used while you are still selecting and
 designing your view definitions. While a view is in development mode, views
 operate with the following attributes:</p><ul class="- topic/ul " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="ul:1;14:48">
<li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="li:1;15:5">By default the development view works on only a subset of the stored
 information. You can, however, force the generation of a development view
 information on the full dataset.</li>
<li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="li:2;18:5">Development views use live data from the selected Couchbase bucket, enabling you
 to develop and refine your view in real-time on your production data.</li>
<li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="li:3;20:5">Development views are not automatically rebuilt, and during a rebalance
 operation, development views are not updated, even when when consistent views
 are enabled, as this relies on the automated update mechanism. Updating
 development views in this way would waste system resources.</li>
<li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="li:4;24:5">Development views are fully editable and modifiable during their lifetime. You
 can change and update the view definition for a development view at any time.
During development of the view, you can view and edit stored document to help
 develop the view definition.</li>
<li class="- topic/li " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="li:5;28:5">Development views are accessed from client libraries through a different URL
 than production views, making it easy to determine the view type and information
 during development of your application.</li>
</ul><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="p:4;31:9">Within the Web Console, the execution of a view by default occurs only over a
 subset of the full set of documents stored in the bucket. You can elect to run
 the View over the full set using the Web Console.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="p:5;33:58">Because of the selection process, the reduced set of documents may not be fully
 representative of all the documents in the bucket. You should always check the
 view execution over the full set.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="p:6;35:42">For information on publishing a view from development to production state, see
<xref href="#topic2490/couchbase-views-editor-publishing" class="- topic/xref " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Views/views-development.dita" xtrc="xref:1;36:59"><?ditaot usertext?>Publishing Views</xref>.</p></body><related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:107;124:50" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " mapclass="- map/topicref " type="topic" xtrc="topicref:103;120:42" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Admin.ditamap" href="../Views/views-intro.dita" role="parent"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Views and indexes</linktext></link></linkpool></related-links>
</topic>