<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1395"><title>cbreset_password tool</title><body><p>You use this tool to reset an administrative or read-only password. You can find this tool in the following locations, depending upon your platform:</p><table><tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row>
	<entry>Operating System</entry>
	<entry>Location</entry>
</row></thead><tbody><row>
	<entry><b>Linux</b></entry>
	<entry><codeph>/opt/couchbase/bin/tools/</codeph></entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Windows</b></entry>
	<entry><codeph>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\tools\</codeph></entry>
</row><row>
	<entry><b>Mac OS X</b></entry>
	<entry><codeph>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/tools/</codeph></entry>
</row></tbody></tgroup></table><p>To reset the administrative password:</p><codeblock><codeph>./cbreset_password hostname:port
</codeph></codeblock><p>This will result in output as follows:</p><codeblock><codeph>Please enter the new administrative password (or &lt;Enter&gt; for system generated password):
</codeph></codeblock><p>Enter a password of six characters or more or you can have the system generate one for you. After you enter a password or accept a generated one, the system will prompt you for confirmation:</p><codeblock><codeph>Running this command will reset administrative password.
Do you really want to do it? (yes/no)yes
</codeph></codeblock><p>Upon success you will see this output:</p><codeblock><codeph>Resetting administrative password...
Password for user Administrator was successfully replaced. New password is Uxye76FJ
</codeph></codeblock><p>There are a few possible errors from this command:</p><codeblock><codeph>{error,&lt;&lt;"The password must be at least six characters."&gt;&gt;}

{error,&lt;&lt;"Failed to reset administrative password. Node is not initialized."&gt;&gt;}
</codeph></codeblock><p>The first one indicates you have not provided a password of adequate length. The second one indicates that Couchbase Server is not yet configured and running.</p></body></topic>