<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dl3_clp_yn">
 <title>Bucket metadata ejection</title>
 <shortdesc>Metadata ejection allows both value and full bucket ejection from memory.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
  
  <p>Value bucket ejection removes the data but keeps all keys and metadata in memory (default). 
   Value-bucket ejection is the standard method of ejection. 
   Full-bucket ejection removes all data including keys, metadata, and key-values. 
   Full-bucket ejection reduces the RAM requirement for large buckets.</p>
  
  <p>Full-bucket ejection allows large data footprints are supported with efficient cache managment and 
   reduced warmup times are possible when the working sets in memory are smaller. 
   This method addresses an environment where there are very large datasets (large number of items/keys), 
   and a small working set in memory. 
   Metadata ejection operates at the bucket-level for manageability purposes. 
   The workload characteristics can be categorized.</p>
  
  <p><b>GRAPHICs: Ejection Logic Table</b></p>

  
  <section><title>Questions</title>
   <p>Is it incremental, meaning that item's value is evicted in the first eviction phase and 
    then its key and meta data in the second phase if the memory usage is still high.</p>
  </section>
  
  


  
  <section><title>Impacted documentation</title>
   <ul>
    <li>Added to Document Metadata material (Under Views and data storage). Also, move the the Document
      Metadata and data storage material to a more appropriate section.</li>
    <li>Warm up operations</li>
    <li>Global thread pool</li>
    <li>Other ejection from hitting thresholds</li>
   </ul>
  </section>
  
  
  <section><title>Backward compatibility</title>
   <p>Behavioral changes are also described.</p>
   <ul>
    <li>EJECTION LOGIC GRAPHIC</li>
    <li>OLD 2.x release: val for all active datasets are ejected. Metadata + key is not ejected for all active datasets</li>
    <li>3.0: both value and metadata+key are ejected.</li>
   </ul>
  </section> 
  
  
 </conbody>
 
 <related-links>
  <linklist>
   <link href="../CLI/CBcli/cbcli-bucket-metadata-ejection.dita">
    <linktext>Ejecting bucket metadata (CLI)</linktext>
   </link>
   <link href="../CLI/CBcli/cbcli-buckets.dita"></link>
   <link href="../rest/rest-bucket-metadata-ejection.dita">
    <linktext>Ejecting bucket metadata (REST)</linktext>
   </link>
   <link href="../rest/rest-bucket-intro.dita"></link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</concept>
