<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_plr_jwp_yn">
 <title>Incremental backup and restore</title>
 <shortdesc>An incremental backup or restore is a backup (or restore) of the latest changes since
    the last backup (any level).</shortdesc>
 
 <conbody>
   <p>Incremental backup and restore allow administrators to backup and restore only modified part of the database 
   instead of taking a full data backup every time. 
   This makes backup more efficient for larger datasets and reduces the risk of data loss. </p>
  <p>The purpose of an incremental backup is to preserve and protect data by creating copies that
      are based on the differences in those data and thus minimize the amount of time needed to
      perform the backup. With incremental backups, successive copies of the data contain only that
      portion which has changed since the preceding backup copy was made. Incremental backups are
      faster than full backups and reduce network utilization.</p>
   
   <p>The following are the types of backups:</p>
   
   <dl>
     <dlentry>
     <dt>Full backup</dt>
       <dd>A snapshot of the state of the database at a particular point-in-time on disk. 
       A snapshot is a read-only copy of the dataset. 
       The restoration process takes the last full backup 
       plus all the incremental backups until the restoration point-in-time is reached.</dd>
     </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>Differential backup</dt>
       <dd>An incremental backup that contains all data changes after the most recent incremental
          backup. Differential backups are deltas between the following: <ul>
            <li>Last full backup and the first snapshot</li>
            <li>Last incremental snapshot the current snapshot</li>
          </ul></dd>
     </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
       <dt>Accummulative backup</dt>
       <dd>An incremental backup that contains all data changes after the last full backup. 
         A snapshot of the data changes between the last full backup and the current snapshot. 
         </dd>
     </dlentry>
   </dl>
   
   <draft-comment author="Ruth" disposition="open" status="unchanged">DIFFERENTIAL backup graphic</draft-comment>
   <draft-comment author="Ruth" disposition="open" status="unchanged">ACCUMMULATIVE backup graphic</draft-comment>

   <draft-comment author="Ruth" disposition="open" status="unchanged">Is there REST API equivalent information?</draft-comment>
   
   <section><title>Impacted documentation</title>
   <ul>
     <li>cbbackup</li>
     <li>cbrestore</li>
   </ul>
   </section>
     
     <section><title>Backward compatibility</title>
       
       <ul>
         <li>2.0+</li>
       </ul>
     </section>
   
     

   
 </conbody>
</concept>
