<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bd3_rjq_54">
	<title>Configuring clients for SSL</title>
	<abstract>
		<shortdesc>The Couchbase Server client libraries support client-side encryption using the
			Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol.</shortdesc> To enable SSL on the client-side, you need
		to get an SSL certificate from Couchbase Server, as described in <xref format="dita"
			scope="local" href="security-clientServer-comm.dita" />, and then follow the steps specific
		to the client you are using. </abstract>
	<conbody>
		<p>The following clients support SSL:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>Java</li>
			<li>.NET</li>
			<li>Node.js</li>
			<li>PHP</li>
			<li>C</li>
		</ul>
		<section id="java-ssl">
			<title>Configuring the Java client for SSL</title>
			<p>To configure SSL for the Java client:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Get the SSL certificate from Couchbase Server.</li>
				<li><p>Store the certificate in your Java virtual machine (JVM) keystore.</p>
					<codeblock outputclass="language-bourne">$ keytool -import -file certificate-file-name</codeblock></li>

				<li><p>Enable SSL by modifying the <filepath>reference.conf</filepath> configuration
						file.</p>
					<p>Set <codeph>sslEnabled</codeph> to <codeph>true</codeph>, specify the path to the
						keystore, and provide the keystore password, as shown in the following
						example:</p>
					<codeblock>com.couchbase.client.bootstrap {
    sslEnabled = true
    sslKeystoreFile = /path/to/keystorefile
    sslKeystorePassword = ""
}</codeblock></li>
			</ol>
		</section>

		<section id="net-ssl">
			<title>Configuring the .NET client for SSL</title>
			<p>To configure SSL for the .NET client:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Get the SSL certificate from Couchbase Server.</li>
				<li>Store the certificate in the Microsoft Windows Trusted Root Certification
					Authorities certificate store.</li>
				<li><p>Enable SSL support on the client.</p>
					<p>You can enable SSL at either the cluster level or on a per-Bucket basis. Setting
						SSL support at the cluster level means that all buckets within the cluster will
						use SSL. If you want to use SSL only on specific buckets, just configure your
						individual bucket to use SSL. Here's some examples:</p>
					
<codeblock>var config = new ClientConfiguration()
{
   UseSsl = true
};
var cluster = new CouchbaseCluster(config);
using (var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket())
{
	//all buckets opened with this configuration will use SSL
}  
 
var config = new ClientConfiguration
{
	BucketConfigs = new Dictionary&lt;string, BucketConfiguration>
	{
		{"customers", new BucketConfiguration
			{
			UseSsl = true
			}}
		}
	};
var cluster = new CouchbaseCluster(config);
using (var bucket = cluster.OpenBucket("customers"))
{
	//only the customers bucket will use SSL
}
</codeblock>

				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>

		<section id="node-ssl">
			<title>Configuring the Node.js client for SSL</title>
			<p>To configure SSL for Node.js:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Get the SSL certificate from Couchbase Server.</li>
				<li>Store the certificate in the appropriate certificate storage area for your environment.</li>
				<li>Pass an SSL scheme with your connection string when creating your cluster object, as
					shown in the following example:
					<codeblock>var couchbase = require('couchbase');
var myCluster = new couchbase.Cluster('couchbases://10.1.1.1');
var myBucket = myCluster.openBucket();</codeblock></li>
			</ol>
		</section>

		<section id="php-ssl">
			<title>Configuring the PHP client for SSL</title>
			<p>To configure SSL for PHP:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Get the SSL certificate from Couchbase Server.</li>
				<li>Store the certificate in the appropriate certificate storage area for your environment.</li>
				<li>TBD</li>
			</ol>
		</section>

		<section id="c-ssl">
			<title>Configuring the C client for SSL</title>
			<p>To configure SSL for C:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Get the SSL certificate from Couchbase Server.</li>
				<li>Store the certificate in the appropriate certificate storage area for your environment.</li>
				<li>Pass an SSL scheme with your connection string when creating your cluster object, as
					shown in the following example:
					<codeblock>cropts.v.v3.connstr = "couchbases://securehost.net/mybucket?ca_path=server_ca.pem";</codeblock></li>
			</ol>
			
		</section>



	</conbody>
</concept>
