<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_e1d_lxf_q4">
 <title>Rebalance effect on bucket types</title>
 <shortdesc>The rebalance operation works across the cluster on both Couchbase and memcached buckets</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>There are differences in the rebalance operation for Couchbase and memcached buckets due to the inherent differences of the two bucket types.</p>
  
  <p>For Couchbase buckets:</p><ul>
     <li>Data is rebalance across all the nodes in the cluster to match the new
      configuration.</li>
     <li>Updated vBucket map is communicated to clients as each vBucket is successfully
      moved.</li>
     <li>No data is lost, and there are no changes to the caching or availability of individual
      keys.</li>
    </ul>
  
  <p>For memcached buckets:</p>
  <ul>
     <li>If new nodes are being added to the cluster, the new node is added to the cluster, and
      the node is added to the list of nodes supporting the memcached bucket data.</li>
     <li>If nodes are being removed from the cluster, the data stored on that node within the
      memcached bucket will be lost, and the node removed from the available list of nodes.</li>
     <li>In either case, the list of nodes handling the bucket data is automatically updated and
      communicated to the client nodes. Memcached buckets use the Ketama hashing algorithm which is
      designed to cope with server changes, but the change of server nodes may shift the hashing and
      invalidate some keys once the rebalance operation has completed.</li>
    </ul>

 </conbody>
</concept>
