<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bbv_ywf_q4">
 <title>Rebalance behind-the-scenes</title>
 <shortdesc>The rebalance process is managed through a
  specific process called the orchestrator.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
  <p>The orchestrator examines the current vBucket map
   and then combines that information with the node additions and removals in order to create a new
   vBucket map.</p>
  <p>The orchestrator starts the process of moving the individual vBuckets from
    the current vBucket map to the new vBucket structure. The process is only started by the
    orchestrator - the nodes themselves are responsible for actually performing the movement of data
    between the nodes. The aim is to make the newly calculated vBucket map match the current
    situation.</p>
  <p>Each vBucket is moved independently, and a number of vBuckets can be migrated
     simultaneously in parallel between the different nodes in the cluster. On each destination node,
     a process called <codeph>ebucketmigrator</codeph> is started, which uses the TAP system to
     request that all the data is transferred for a single vBucket, and that the new vBucket data
     will become the active vBucket once the migration has been completed.</p>
  <p>While the vBucket
      migration process is taking place, clients are still sending data to the existing vBucket. This
      information is migrated along with the original data that existed before the migration was
      requested. Once the migration of the all the data has completed, the original vBucket is marked
      as disabled, and the new vBucket is enabled. This updates the vBucket map, which is communicated
      back to the connected clients which will now use the new location.</p>
  
  
  
  <section><title>Changing vBucket moves with REST</title>
   <p>The number of vBucket moves that occur during the rebalance
    operation can be modified. The default is one (1), that is, only one vBucket is moved at a time
    during the rebalance operation.</p>
  <p>To change the number of vBucket moves, execute a curl POST
         command using the following syntax with the <codeph>/internalSettings</codeph> endpoint and
         <codeph>rebalanceMovesPerNode</codeph>
         option.</p>

  <codeblock>
curl -X POST -u admin:password
 -d rebalanceMovesPerNode=1
 http://HOST:PORT/internalSettings
</codeblock>
  
  <p>For example:</p>
   <codeblock>
curl -X POST -u Administrator:password
 -d rebalanceMovesPerNode=14
 http://soursop-s11201.sc.couchbase.com:8091/internalSettings
</codeblock>
  </section>
  
  
 </conbody>
</concept>
