<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_sv3_pyp_fp">
  <title>Backup and restore</title>
  <shortdesc>Backup of your entire cluster periodically to minimize data inconsistency when a restore is required.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Backing up your data should be a regular process on your cluster to ensure that
    you do not lose information in the event of a serious hardware or installation
    failure.</p>
    
    <p>There are a number of methods for performing a backup:</p>
    
    <ul>
      <li>Using <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>
        <p>The `cbbackup` command enables you to back up a single node, single buckets, or
          the entire cluster into a flexible backup structure that allows for restoring
          the data into the same, or different, clusters and buckets. All backups can be
          performed on a live cluster or node. Using `cbbackup` is the most flexible and
          recommended backup tool.</p></li>
      <li>Using File Copies
        <p>A running or offline cluster can be backed up by copying the files on each of
          the nodes. With this method, you can only restore to a cluster with an identical
          configuration.</p>
        <note type="note">Due to the active nature of Couchbase Server it is impossible to create a
          complete in-time backup and snapshot of the entire cluster. Because data is
          always being updated and modified, it would be impossible to take an accurate
          snapshot.</note>
      </li>
    </ul>
    <note type="note">You should backup and restore your entire cluster to minimize any
      inconsistencies in data. Couchbase is always per-item consistent, but does not
      guarantee total cluster consistency or in-order persistence.</note>
    
  </body>
</topic>
