<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1440">
  <title>Changing the configured disk path</title>
  <body>
    <p>You cannot change the disk path where the data and index files are stored on a running
      server. To change the disk path, the node must be removed from the cluster, configured with
      the new path, and added back to the cluster.</p>
    <p>The quickest and easiest method is to provision a new node with the correct disk path
      configured, and then use swap rebalance to add the new node in while taking the old node out.
      .</p>
    <p>To change the disk path of the existing node, the recommended sequence is:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>Remove the node where you want to change the disk path from the cluster.To ensure the
        performance of your cluster is not reduced, perform a swap rebalance with a new node.</li>
      <li>Perform a rebalance operation.</li>
      <li>Configure the new disk path, either by using the REST API using the command-line (see
        cluster initialization for more information).<p>Alternatively, connect to the Web UI of the
          new node, and follow the setup process to configure the disk path.</p></li>
      <li>Add the node back to the cluster.</li>
    </ol>
    <p>The above process changes the disk path only on the node that was removed from the cluster.
      To change the disk path on multiple nodes, swap out each node and change the disk path
      individually.</p>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist><title>Related topics</title>
      <link href="../Tasks/rebalance-swap-rebalance.dita"/>
      <link href="../Tasks/rebalance-adding-nodes.dita"/>
      <link href="../Tasks/rebalance-performing.dita"/>
      <link href="../Tasks/rebalance-cluster.dita"/>
      <link href="../REST/rest-node-index-path.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
