<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic22552">
  <title>Backup and restore</title>
  <shortdesc>The predominant method for backing up and restoring data is using the CLI <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> 
  and <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> tools.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Backing up your data should be a regular process on your cluster to ensure that you do not
      lose information in the event of a serious hardware or installation failure.</p>
    <p>There are a number of methods for performing a backup:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Using <codeph>cbbackup</codeph></li>
    </ul>
    <p>The <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> command enables you to back up a single node, single buckets,
      or the entire cluster into a flexible backup structure that allows for restoring the data into
      the same, or different, clusters and buckets. All backups can be performed on a live cluster
      or node. Using <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> is the most flexible and recommended backup tool.</p>
    <p>To restore, you need to use the <codeph>cbrestore</codeph>command.</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Using File Copies</li>
    </ul>
    <p>A running or offline cluster can be backed up by copying the files on each of the nodes.
      Using this method you can only restore to a cluster with an identical configuration.</p>
    
    <p>To restore, you need to use the file copy method.</p>
    <p>Due to the active nature of Couchbase Server it is impossible to create a complete in-time
      backup and snapshot of the entire cluster. Because data is always being updated and modified,
      it would be impossible to take an accurate snapshot.</p>
    
    <p>Best Practice</p>
    <p>It is a best practice to backup and restore your entire cluster to minimize any
      inconsistencies in data. Couchbase is always per-item consistent, but does not guarantee total
      cluster consistency or in-order persistence. </p>
    <section><title>Backing up using cbbackup</title><p>The <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> tool is a
        flexible backup command that enables you to backup both local data and remote nodes and
        clusters involving different combinations of your data:</p><ul>
        <li><p>Single bucket on a single node</p></li>
        <li><p>All the buckets on a single node</p></li>
        <li><p>Single bucket from an entire cluster</p></li>
        <li><p>All the buckets from an entire cluster</p></li>
      </ul><p>Backups can be performed either locally, by copying the files directly on a single
        node, or remotely by connecting to the cluster and then streaming the data from the cluster
        to your backup location. Backups can be performed either on a live running node or cluster,
        or on an offline node.</p><p>The <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> command stores data in a format
        that allows for easy restoration. When restoring, using <codeph>cbrestore</codeph>, you can
        restore back to a cluster of any configuration. The source and destination clusters do not
        need to match if you used <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> to store the information.</p><p>The
          <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> command will copy the data in each course from the source
        definition to a destination backup directory. The backup file format is unique to Couchbase
        and enables you to restore, all or part of the backed up data when restoring the information
        to a cluster. Selection can be made on a key (by regular expression) or all the data stored
        in a particular vBucket ID. You can also select to copy the source data from a bucketname
        into a bucket of a different name on the cluster on which you are restoring the
        data.</p><p>The <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> command takes the following
        arguments:</p><codeblock><codeph>cbbackup [options] [source] [backup_dir]
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
          <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> tool is located within the standard Couchbase command-line
        directory. </p><p>Be aware that <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> does not
        support external IP addresses. This means that if you install Couchbase Server with the
        default IP address, you cannot use an external hostname to access it. </p>
      <p>Where the arguments are as described below:</p><ul>
        <li><codeph>[options]</codeph></li>
      </ul><p>One or more options for the backup process. These are used to configure username and
        password information for connecting to the cluster, backup type selection, and bucket
        selection. </p><p>The primary options select what will be backed up by
          <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>, including:</p><codeblock><codeph>* `--single-node`

  Only back up the single node identified by the source specification.

* `--bucket-source` or `-b`

  Backup only the specified bucket name.
</codeph></codeblock><ul>
        <li><codeph>[source]</codeph></li>
      </ul><p>The source for the data, either a local data directory reference, or a remote
        node/cluster specification:</p>
      
      <codeblock>* `Local Directory Reference`

  A local directory specification is defined as a URL using the `couchstore-files`
  protocol. For example:

   ```
   couchstore-files:///opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data/default
   ```

  Using this method you are specifically backing up the specified bucket data on a
  single node only. To backup an entire bucket data across a cluster, or all the
  data on a single node, you must use the cluster node specification. This method
  does not backup the design documents defined within the bucket.

* `cluster node`

  A node or node within a cluster, specified as a URL to the node or cluster
  service. For example:

   ```
   http://HOST:8091
   ```

  Or for distinction you can use the `couchbase` protocol prefix:

   ```
   couchbase://HOST:8091
   ```

  The administrator and password can also be combined with both forms of the URL
  for authentication. If you have named data buckets other than the default bucket
  which you want to backup, you will need to specify an administrative name and
  password for the bucket:

   ```
   couchbase://Administrator:password@HOST:8091
   ```

  The combination of additional options specifies whether the supplied URL refers
  to the entire cluster, a single node, or a single bucket (node or cluster). The
  node and cluster can be remote (or local).

  This method also backs up the design documents used to define views and indexes.
</codeblock><ul>
        <li><codeph>[backup_dir]</codeph></li>
      </ul><p>The directory where the backup data files will be stored on the node on which the
          <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> is executed. This must be an absolute, explicit, directory, as
        the files will be stored directly within the specified directory; no additional directory
        structure is created to differentiate between the different components of the data
        backup.</p><p>The directory that you specify for the backup should either not exist, or
        exist and be empty with no other files. If the directory does not exist, it will be created,
        but only if the parent directory already exists.</p><p>The backup directory is always
        created on the local node, even if you are backing up a remote node or cluster. The backup
        files are stored locally in the backup directory specified.</p><p>Backups can take place on
        a live, running, cluster or node for the IP</p><p>Using this basic structure, you can backup
        a number of different combinations of data from your source cluster. Examples of the
        different combinations are provided below:</p><ul>
        <li><b>Backup all nodes and all buckets</b></li>
      </ul><p>To backup an entire cluster, consisting of all the buckets and all the node
        data:</p>
      
      <codeblock>
&gt; cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups/backup-20120501 \
  -u Administrator -p password
  [####################] 100.0% (231726/231718 msgs)
bucket: default, msgs transferred...
       :                total |       last |    per sec
 batch :                 5298 |       5298 |      617.1
 byte  :             10247683 |   10247683 |  1193705.5
 msg   :               231726 |     231726 |    26992.7
done
  [####################] 100.0% (11458/11458 msgs)
bucket: loggin, msgs transferred...
       :                total |       last |    per sec
 batch :                 5943 |       5943 |    15731.0
 byte  :             11474121 |   11474121 | 30371673.5
 msg   :84 |84 |   643701.2
done

</codeblock>
      <p>When
        backing up multiple buckets, a progress report, and summary report for the information
        transferred will be listed for each bucket backed up. The <codeph>msgs</codeph> count shows
        the number of documents backed up. The <codeph>byte</codeph> shows the overall size of the
        data document data.</p><p>The source specification in this case is the URL of one of the
        nodes in the cluster. The backup process will stream data directly from each node in order
        to create the backup content. The initial node is only used to obtain the cluster topology
        so that the data can be backed up.</p><p>A backup created in this way enables you to choose
        during restoration how you want to restore the information. You can choose to restore the
        entire dataset, or a single bucket, or a filtered selection of that information onto a
        cluster of any size or configuration.</p><ul>
        <li><b>Backup all nodes, single bucket</b></li>
      </ul><p>To backup all the data for a single bucket, containing all of the information from the
        entire
        cluster:</p><codeblock>
&gt; cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups/backup-20120501 \
  -u Administrator -p password \
  -b default
  [####################] 100.0% (231726/231718 msgs)
bucket: default, msgs transferred...
       :                total |       last |    per sec
 batch :                 5294 |       5294 |      617.0
 byte  :             10247683 |   10247683 |  1194346.7
 msg   :               231726 |     231726 |    27007.2
done
</codeblock><p>The
          <codeph>-b</codeph> option specifies the name of the bucket that you want to backup. If
        the bucket is a named bucket you will need to provide administrative name and password for
        that bucket.</p><p>To backup an entire cluster, you will need to run the same operation on
        each bucket within the cluster.</p><ul>
        <li><b>Backup single node, all buckets</b></li>
      </ul><p>To backup all of the data stored on a single node across all of the different
        buckets:</p><codeblock>
&gt; cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups/backup-20120501 \
  -u Administrator -p password \
  --single-node
</codeblock>
      <p>Using
        this method, the source specification must specify the node that you want backup. To backup
        an entire cluster using this method, you should backup each node individually.</p><ul>
        <li><b>Backup single node, single bucket</b></li>
      </ul><p>To backup the data from a single bucket on a single
        node:</p>
      <codeblock>
&gt; cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups/backup-20120501 \
  -u Administrator -p password \
  --single-node \
  -b default
</codeblock>
      
      <p>Using
        this method, the source specification must be the node that you want to back up.</p><ul>
        <li><b>Backup single node, single bucket; backup files stored on same node</b></li>
      </ul><p>To backup a single node and bucket, with the files stored on the same node as the
        source data, there are two methods available. One uses a node specification, the other uses
        a file store specification. Using the node
        specification:</p><codeblock>
&gt; ssh USER@HOST
remote-&gt; sudo su - couchbase
remote-&gt; cbbackup http://127.0.0.1:8091 /mnt/backup-20120501 \
  -u Administrator -p password \
  --single-node \
  -b default

</codeblock><p>This
        method backups up the cluster data of a single bucket on the local node, storing the backup
        data in the local filesystem.</p><p>Using a file store reference (in place of a node
        reference) is faster because the data files can be copied directly from the source directory
        to the backup
        directory:</p><codeblock>
&gt; ssh USER@HOST
remote-&gt; sudo su - couchbase
remote-&gt; cbbackup couchstore-files:///opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data/default /mnt/backup-20120501

</codeblock><p>To
        backup the entire cluster using this method, you will need to backup each node, and each
        bucket, individually.</p><p>Choosing the right backup solution will depend on your
        requirements and your expected method for restoring the data to the
          cluster.</p><p><b>Filtering keys during backup</b></p><p>The <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>
        command includes support for filtering the keys that are backed up into the database files
        you create. This can be useful if you want to specifically backup a portion of your dataset,
        or you want to move part of your dataset to a different bucket.</p><p>The specification is
        in the form of a regular expression, and is performed on the client-side within the
          <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> tool. For example, to backup information from a bucket where the
        keys have a prefix of
        ‘object’:</p><codeblock>&gt; cbbackup http://HOST:8091 /backups/backup-20120501 \
  -u Administrator -p password \
  -b default \
  -k '^object.*'
</codeblock><p>The
        above will copy only the keys matching the specified prefix into the backup file. When the
        data is restored, only those keys that were recorded in the backup file will be
        restored.</p><p>Warning</p><p>The regular expression match is performed client side. This
        means that the entire bucket contents must be accessed by the `cbbackup` command and then
        discarded if the regular expression does not match.</p><p>Key-based regular expressions can
        also be used when restoring data. You can backup an entire bucket and restore selected keys
        during the restore process using <codeph>cbrestore</codeph>. </p>
      
      <p><b>Backing up using file copies</b></p><p>You can also backup by using
        either <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> and specifying the local directory where the data is
        stored, or by copying the data files directly using <codeph>cp</codeph>,
          <codeph>tar</codeph> or similar.</p><p>For example, using <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>
        :</p>
      <codeblock>&gt; cbbackup \
    couchstore-files:///opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data/default \
    /mnt/backup-20120501
</codeblock><p>The
        same backup operation using <codeph>cp</codeph>
        :</p><codeblock><codeph>&gt; cp -R /opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data/default \
      /mnt/copy-20120501
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
        limitation of backing up information in this way is that the data can only be restored to
        offline nodes in an identical cluster configuration, and where an identical vbucket map is
        in operation (you should also copy the <codeph>config.dat</codeph> configuration file from
        each node.</p></section>
    <section><title>Restoring using cbrestore</title><p>When restoring a backup, you have to select
        the appropriate restore sequence based on the type of restore you are performing. The
        methods available to you when restoring a cluster are dependent on the method you used when
        backing up the cluster. If <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> was used to backup the bucket data, you
        can restore back to a cluster with the same or different configuration. This is because
          <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> stores information about the stored bucket data in a format that
        enables it to be restored back into a bucket on a new cluster. For all these scenarios you
        can use <codeph>cbrestore</codeph>. </p>
      <p>If the information was backed up using a direct file copy, then you
        must restore the information back to an identical cluster. </p>
      <p>The <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> command takes the information that has
        been backed up via the <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> command and streams the stored data into a
        cluster. The configuration of the cluster does not have to match the cluster configuration
        when the data was backed up, allowing it to be used when transferring information to a new
        cluster or updated or expanded version of the existing cluster in the event of disaster
        recovery.</p><p>Because the data can be restored flexibly, it allows for a number of
        different scenarios to be executed on the data that has been backed up:</p><ul>
        <li><p>You want to restore data into a cluster of a different size and
          configuration.</p></li>
        <li><p>You want to transfer/restore data into a different bucket on the same or different
            cluster.</p></li>
        <li><p>You want to restore a selected portion of the data into a new or different cluster,
            or the same cluster but a different bucket.</p></li>
      </ul><p>The basic format of the <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> command is as
        follows:</p><codeblock><codeph>cbrestore [options] [source] [destination]
</codeph></codeblock><p>Where:</p><ul>
        <li><codeph>[options]</codeph></li>
      </ul><p>Options specifying how the information should be restored into the cluster. Common
        options
        include:</p><codeblock><codeph>* `--bucket-source`

  Specify the name of the bucket data to be read from the backup data that will be
  restored.

* `--bucket-destination`

  Specify the name of the bucket the data will be written to. If this option is
  not specified, the data will be written to a bucket with the same name as the
  source bucket.

* `--add`

  Use `--add` instead of `--set` in order to not overwrite existing items in the destination.
</codeph></codeblock><p>For
        information on all the options available when using the cbrestore
        tool.</p><ul>
        <li><codeph>[source]</codeph></li>
      </ul><p>The backup directory specified to <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> where the backup data was
        stored.</p><ul>
        <li><codeph>[destination]</codeph></li>
      </ul><p>The REST API URL of a node within the cluster where the information will be
        restored.</p><p>The <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> command restores only a single bucket of data
        at a time. If you have created a backup of an entire cluster (i.e. all buckets), then you
        must restore each bucket individually back to the cluster. All destination buckets must
        already exist; <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> does not create or configure destination buckets
        for you.</p><p>For example, to restore a single bucket of data to a
        cluster:</p><codeblock><codeph>&gt; cbrestore \
    /backups/backup-2012-05-10 \
    http://Administrator:password@HOST:8091 \
    --bucket-source=XXX
  [####################] 100.0% (231726/231726 msgs)
bucket: default, msgs transferred...
       :                total |       last |    per sec
 batch :                  232 |        232 |       33.1
 byte  :             10247683 |   10247683 |  1462020.7
 msg   :               231726 |     231726 |    33060.0
done
</codeph></codeblock><p>To
        restore the bucket data to a different bucket on the
        cluster:</p><codeblock><codeph>&gt; cbrestore \
    /backups/backup-2012-05-10 \
    http://Administrator:password@HOST:8091 \
    --bucket-source=XXX \
    --bucket-destination=YYY
  [####################] 100.0% (231726/231726 msgs)
bucket: default, msgs transferred...
       :                total |       last |    per sec
 batch :                  232 |        232 |       33.1
 byte  :             10247683 |   10247683 |  1462020.7
 msg   :               231726 |     231726 |    33060.0
done
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
          <codeph>msg</codeph> count in this case is the number of documents restored back to the
        bucket in the cluster.</p><p><b>Filtering keys during restore</b></p><p>The
          <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> command includes support for filtering the keys that are
        restored to the database from the files that were created during backup. This is in addition
        to the filtering support available during backup.</p><p>The specification is in the form of a regular expression supplied
        as an option to the <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> command. For example, to restore information
        to a bucket only where the keys have a prefix of
        ‘object’:</p><codeblock><codeph>&gt; cbrestore /backups/backup-20120501 http://HOST:8091 \
  -u Administrator -p password \
  -b default \
  -k '^object.*'
2013-02-18 10:39:09,476: w0 skipping msg with key: sales_7597_3783_6
...
2013-02-18 10:39:09,476: w0 skipping msg with key: sales_5575_3699_6
2013-02-18 10:39:09,476: w0 skipping msg with key: sales_7597_3840_6
  [                    ] 0.0% (0/231726 msgs)
bucket: default, msgs transferred...
       :                total |       last |    per sec
 batch :                    1 |          1 |        0.1
 byte  :                    0 |          0 |        0.0
 msg   :                    0 |          0 |        0.0
done
</codeph></codeblock><p>The
        above will copy only the keys matching the specified prefix into the
          <codeph>default</codeph> bucket. For each key skipped, an information message will be
        supplied. The remaining output shows the records transferred and summary as
          normal.</p><p><b>Restoring using file copies</b></p><p>To restore the information to the
        same cluster, with the same configuration, you must shutdown your entire cluster while you
        restore the data, and then restart the cluster again. You are replacing the entire cluster
        data and configuration with the backed up version of the data files, and then re-starting
        the cluster with the saved version of the cluster files.</p><p>Important</p><p>Make sure
        that any restoration of files also sets the proper ownership of those files to the couchbase
        user </p><p>When restoring data back in to the same cluster, then the following must be true
        before proceeding:</p><ul>
        <li><p>The backup and restore must take between cluster using the same version of Couchbase
            Server.</p></li>
        <li><p>The cluster must contain the same number of nodes.</p></li>
        <li><p>Each node must have the IP address or hostname it was configured with when the
            cluster was backed up.</p></li>
        <li><p>You must restore all of the <codeph>config.dat</codeph> configuration files as well
            as all of the database files to their original locations.</p></li>
      </ul><p>The steps required to complete the restore process are:</p><ol>
        <li>Stop the Couchbase Server service on all nodes.</li>
        <li>On each node, restore the database, <codeph>stats.json</codeph>, and configuration file
          ( <codeph>config.dat</codeph> ) from your backup copies for each node.</li>
        <li>Restart the service on each node. </li>
      </ol></section>
    <section><title>Backup and restore between Mac OS X and other platforms</title><p>Couchbase
        Server on Mac OS X uses a different number of configured vBuckets than the Linux and Windows
        installations. Because of this, backing up from Mac OS X and restoring to Linux or Windows,
        or vice versa, requires using the built-in Moxi server and the memcached protocol. Moxi will
        rehash the stored items into the appropriate bucket.</p><ul>
        <li><b>Backing up Mac OS X and restoring on Linux/Windows</b></li>
      </ul><p>To backup the data from Mac OS X, you can use the standard <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>
        tool and
        options:</p><codeblock><codeph>```
&gt; cbbackup http://Administrator:password@mac:8091 /macbackup/today
```
</codeph></codeblock><p>To
        restore the data to a Linux/Windows cluster, you must connect to the Moxi port (11211) on
        one of the nodes within your destination cluster and use the Memcached protocol to restore
        the data. Moxi will rehash the information and distribute the data to the appropriate node
        within the cluster. For
        example:</p><codeblock><codeph>```
&gt; cbrestore /macbackup/today memcached://linux:11211 -b default -B default
```
</codeph></codeblock><p>If
        you have backed up multiple buckets from your Mac, you must restore to each bucket
        individually.</p><ul>
        <li><b>Backing Up Linux/Windows and restoring on Mac OS X</b></li>
      </ul><p>To backup the data from Linux or Windows, you can use the standard
          <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> tool and
        options:</p><codeblock><codeph>```
&gt; cbbackup http://Administrator:password@linux:8091 /linuxbackup/today
```
</codeph></codeblock><p>To
        restore to the Mac OS X node or cluster, you must connect to the Moxi port (11211) and use
        the Memcached protocol to restore the data. Moxi will rehash the information and distribute
        the data to the appropriate node within the cluster. For example:</p><codeblock><codeph>```
&gt; cbrestore /linuxbackup/today memcached://mac:11211 -b default -B default
```
</codeph></codeblock><ul>
        <li><b>Transferring data directly</b></li>
      </ul><p>You can use <codeph>cbtransfer</codeph> to perform the data move directly between Mac
        OS X and Linux/Windows clusters without creating the backup file, providing you correctly
        specify the use of the Moxi and Memcached protocol in the
        destination:</p><codeblock><codeph>```
&gt; cbtransfer http://linux:8091 memcached://mac:11211 -b default -B default
&gt; cbtransfer http://mac:8091 memcached://linux:11211 -b default -B default
```
</codeph></codeblock><p>Important</p><p>These
        transfers will not transfer design documents, since they are using the Memcached protocol </p><ul>
        <li><b>Transferring design documents</b></li>
      </ul><p>Because you are restoring data using the Memcached protocol, design documents are not
        restored. A possible workaround is to modify your backup directory. Using this method, you
        first delete the document data from the backup directory, and then use the standard restore
        process. This will restore only the design documents. For
        example:</p><codeblock><codeph>```
&gt; cbbackup http://Administrator:password@linux:8091 /linuxbackup/today
```
</codeph></codeblock><p>Remove
        or move the data files from the backup out of the
        way:</p><codeblock><codeph>```
&gt; mv /linuxbackup/today/bucket-default/* /tmp
```
</codeph></codeblock><p>Only
        the design document data will remain in the backup directory, you can now restore that
        information using <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> as
      normal:</p><codeblock><codeph>```
&gt; cbrestore /linuxbackup/today http://mac:8091 -b default -B default
```
</codeph></codeblock></section>
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../Install/init-setup.dita"></link>
      <link href="../cli/cli-overview.dita"></link>
      <link href="../cli/cbbackup_tool.dita"></link>
      <link href="../cli/cbrestore_tool.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
