<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/ag3/Install?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/ag3/Install/?><?path2project ../?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" id="topic_ehs_pxy_p4" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)    " class="- topic/topic " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="topic:1;3:30">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="title:1;4:10">Migrating for Membase users</title>
  <body class="- topic/body " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="body:1;5:9">

      <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:1;7:10">For an existing Membase user the primary
        methods for creating, adding, manipulating and retrieving data remain the same. In addition,
        the background operational elements of your Couchbase Server deployment will not differ from
        the basic running of a Membase cluster.</p>
    
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="section:1;12:14"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="title:2;12:21">Term and concept differences</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:2;12:60">The following terms are
      new, or updated, in Couchbase
      Server:</p><codeblock xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="codeblock:1;14:29"><codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="codeph:1;14:37">* `Views`, and the associated terms of the `map` and `reduce` functions used to
  define views. Views provide an alternative method for accessing and querying
  information stored in key/value pairs within Couchbase Server. Views allow you
  to query and retrieve information based on the values of the contents of a
  key/value pair, providing the information has been stored in JSON format.

* *JSON (JavaScript Object Notation)*, a data representation format that is
  required to store the information in a format that can be parsed by the View
  system is new.

* *Membase Server* is now *Couchbase Server*.

* *Membase Buckets* are now *Couchbase Buckets*.
</codeph></codeblock></section>
    
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="section:2;29:14"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="title:3;29:21">Consistent functionality</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:3;29:56">The core functionality of
      Membase, including the methods for basic creation, updating and retrieval of information
      all remain identical within Couchbase Server. You can continue to use the same client
      protocols for setting and retrieving information.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:4;32:63">The administration, deployment,
        and core of the web console and administration interfaces are also identical. There are
        updates and improvements to support additional functionality which is included in existing
        tools. These include View-related statistics, and an update to the Web Administration
        Console for building and defining views.</p></section>
    
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="section:3;38:14"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="title:4;38:21">Changed functionality</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:5;38:53">The main difference of
      Couchbase Server is that in addition to the key/value data store nature of the database,
      you can also use Views to convert the information from individual objects in your database
      into lists or tables of records and information. Through the view system, you can also
      query data from the database based on the value (or fragment of a value) of the
      information that you have stored in the database against a key.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:6;43:77">This fundamental
        differences means that applications no longer need to manually manage the concept of lists
        or sets of data by using other keys as a lookup or compounding
        values.</p></section>
    
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="section:4;48:14"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="title:5;48:21">Operational and deployment differences</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:7;48:70">The main
      components of the operation and deployment of your Couchbase Server remain the same as
      with Membase Server. You can add new nodes, failover, rebalance and otherwise manage your
      nodes as normal.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:8;51:30">However, the introduction of Views means that you will need to
        monitor and control the design documents and views that are created alongside your bucket
        configurations. Indexes are generated for each design document (i.e. multiple views), and
        for optimum reliability you may want to backup the generated index information to reduce
        the time to bring up a node in the event of a failure, as building a view from raw data on
        large datasets may take a significant amount of time.</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:9;56:69">In addition, you will need to
          understand how to recreate and rebuild View data, and how to compact and clean-up view
          information to help reduce disk space consumption and response
          times.</p></section>
    
    <section class="- topic/section " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="section:5;61:14"><title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="title:6;61:21">Client and application ahanges</title><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:10;61:62">Clients can continue
      to communicate with Couchbase Server using the existing memcached protocol interface for
      the basic create, retrieve, update and delete operations for key/value pairs. However, to
      access the View functionality you must use a client library that supports the view API
      (which uses HTTP REST).</p><p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install/migrate-membase.dita" xtrc="p:11;65:37">To build Views that can output and query your stored data,
        your objects must be stored in the database using the JSON format. This may mean that if
        you have been using the native serialization of your client library to convert a language
        specific object so that it can be stored into Membase Server, you will now need to
        structure your data and use a native to JSON serialization solution, or reformat your data
        so that it can be formatted as
        JSON.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:42;63:50" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " mapclass="- map/topicref " type="topic" xtrc="topicref:40;60:42" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/Install.ditamap" href="../Install/migrating.dita" role="parent"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>Migrating</linktext></link></linkpool></related-links>
</topic>