<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?workdir /Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/ag3/CLI/CBepctl?><?workdir-uri file:/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/temp/pdf/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/?><?path2project ../../?><topic xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/" xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1898" ditaarch:DITAArchVersion="1.2" domains="(topic hi-d)                             (topic ut-d)                             (topic indexing-d)                            (topic hazard-d)                            (topic abbrev-d)                            (topic pr-d)                             (topic sw-d)                            (topic ui-d)    " class="- topic/topic " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="topic:1;4:40">
  <title class="- topic/title " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="title:1;5:10">Changing access log settings</title>
  <body class="- topic/body " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="body:1;6:9">
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="p:1;7:8">Couchbase Server has an optimized disk warmup. Couchbase Server pre-fetches a list of
      most-frequently accessed keys and fetches these documents first. The server runs a periodic
      scanner process which determines which keys are most frequently-used. The <codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="codeph:1;9:89">cbepctl
        flush_param</codeph> command is used to change the initial time and the interval for the
      process. You may want to do this, for example, if you have a peak time for your application
      when you want the keys used during this time to be quickly available after server restart.</p>
    
    <note type="note" class="- topic/note " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="note:1;14:23">If you want to change this setting for
      an entire Couchbase cluster, you will need to perform this command on per-node and per-bucket in
      the cluster. By default, any setting you change with `cbepctl` will only be for the named bucket
      at the specific node you provide in the command. This means that if you have a data bucket
      that is shared by two nodes, you will nonetheless need to issue this command twice and provide
      the different host names and ports for each node and the bucket name. Similarly, if you have two
      data buckets for one node, you need to issue the command twice and provide the two data bucket
      names. If you do not specify a named bucket, it will apply to the default bucket or return an
      error if a default bucket does not exist.</note>
    

    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="p:2;25:8">By default the scanner process runs once every 24 hours with a default initial start time
      of 2:00 AM UTC. This means after you install a new Couchbase Server 2.0 instance or restart
      the server, by default the scanner will run every 24- hour time period at 2:00 AM GMT and then
      2:00 PM GMT by default. To change the time interval when the access scanner process runs to
      every 20 minutes:</p>
    <codeblock xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="codeblock:1;30:16"><codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="codeph:2;30:24">&gt; ./cbepctl hostname:port -b bucket_name -p bucket_password set flush_param alog_sleep_time 20
</codeph></codeblock>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="p:3;32:8">To change the initial time that the access scanner process runs from the default of 2:00 AM
      UTC:</p>
    <codeblock xml:space="preserve" class="+ topic/pre pr-d/codeblock " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="codeblock:2;34:16"><codeph class="+ topic/ph pr-d/codeph " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="codeph:3;34:24">&gt; ./cbepctl hostname:port -b bucket_name -p bucket_password set flush_param alog_task_time 23
</codeph></codeblock>
    <p class="- topic/p " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="p:4;36:8">In this example we set the initial time to 11:00 PM UTC.</p>
    
    <note type="important" class="- topic/note " xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita" xtrc="note:2;38:28">Be aware that this tool is a per-node, per-bucket operation. 
      This means that in order to perform this operation, you must specify the IP address of a node in the cluster and a named bucket. 
      If you do not provided a named bucket, the server applies the setting to any
      default bucket that exists at the specified node. In order to perform this operation for an
      entire cluster, perform the command for every node/bucket combination that
      exists for that cluster.</note>
  </body>
<related-links class="- topic/related-links "><linkpool class="- topic/linkpool " xtrc="topicref:14;19:56" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI.ditamap"><link class="- topic/link " mapclass="- map/topicref " type="topic" xtrc="topicref:12;17:43" xtrf="/Users/Ruth/forks/docs-ng/dita/src/ag3/CLI.ditamap" href="../../CLI/cbepctl-intro.dita" role="parent"><?ditaot usertext?><linktext class="- topic/linktext "><?ditaot gentext?>cbepctl tool</linktext></link></linkpool></related-links>
</topic>